src/content/docs/en/general/credits.md, before:

---
title: Credits
lastUpdated: 2025-10-12
---

## Developers
- [end_4](https://github.com/end-4): The repo owner and author.
  - Developed several variants of ricing as the major part of this project.
    - Now maintaining the latest variant, i.e. illogical-impulse on Quickshell.
  - Chores like dealing with issues/PRs/discussions, updating/translating the document, etc.
  - Other things like creating the illogical-impulse logo, etc.
  - Since Jan. 2023 until now.
- [clsty](https://github.com/clsty): The repo collaborator.
  - Developed and has been maintaining the install scripts and this website.
  - Chores like dealing with issues/PRs/discussions, updating/translating the document, etc.
  - Other things like issue templates via diagnose, l10n-notify workflow, providing domain `ii.clsty.link`, etc.
  - Since Jan. 2024 until now.

## Thank you
- [@midn8hustlr](https://github.com/midn8hustlr) for greatly improving the color generation system and implement workspace groups workflow.
- [@outfoxxed](https://github.com/outfoxxed/) for his invaluable support in the creation of the Quickshell version of the dotfiles.
- [@ZeyadMoustafaKamal](https://github.com/ZeyadMoustafaKamal) for introducing `uv` to create virtual environment for python stuff.
- Quickshell: [Soramane](https://github.com/caelestia-dots/shell/), [FridayFaerie](https://github.com/FridayFaerie/quickshell), [nydragon](https://github.com/nydragon/nysh).
- AGS: [Aylur's config](https://github.com/Aylur/dotfiles/tree/ags-pre-ts), [kotontrion's config](https://github.com/kotontrion/dotfiles).
- EWW: [fufexan's config](https://github.com/fufexan/dotfiles) (he thanks more people there btw).
- AI bots for providing useful examples.


## Inspirations/copying

 - Inspiration: osu!lazer, Windows 11, Material Design 3, AvdanOS (concept)
 - Copying: Redistribution and re-creation are definitely OK as long as you follow the License (GNU GPL v3.0).

Commit message:

Create dev/project-contrib; Update credits.md
Give people credits for their help and contribution

src/content/docs/en/general/credits.md, after:

---
title: Credits
lastUpdated: 2025-10-12
---

## Developers
- [end_4](https://github.com/end-4): The repo owner and author.
  - Developed several variants of ricing as the major part of this project.
    - Now maintaining the latest variant, i.e. illogical-impulse on Quickshell.
  - Chores like dealing with issues/PRs/discussions, updating/translating the document, etc.
  - Other things like creating the illogical-impulse logo, etc.
  - Since Jan. 2023 until now.
- [clsty](https://github.com/clsty): The repo collaborator.
  - Developed and has been maintaining the install scripts and this website.
  - Chores like dealing with issues/PRs/discussions, updating/translating the document, etc.
  - Other things like issue templates via diagnose, l10n-notify workflow, providing domain `ii.clsty.link`, etc.
  - Since Jan. 2024 until now.

## Thank you

***This project would not have reached its current state without the following people:***

**The dedicated developers:** _See the previous section._

**The passionate contributors:**
- [@midn8hustlr](https://github.com/midn8hustlr) for greatly improving the color generation system and implement workspace groups workflow.
- [@ZeyadMoustafaKamal](https://github.com/ZeyadMoustafaKamal) for introducing `uv` to create virtual environment for python stuff.[^1]
- [@xiaomeng2004](https://github.com/xiaomeng2004) for multilingual implementation on both AGS and Quickshell versions of illogical-impulse.
- Cross-distro support:
  - `dist-gentoo` by [@jwihardi](https://github.com/jwihardi)
- And [many other people](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/graphs/contributors) (also [for doc site](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland-wiki/graphs/contributors)) whose names not listed above but also spent their time making this project better than ever.

**People sharing their configs:**[^2]
- Quickshell: [Soramane](https://github.com/caelestia-dots/shell/), [FridayFaerie](https://github.com/FridayFaerie/quickshell), [nydragon](https://github.com/nydragon/nysh).
- AGS: [Aylur](https://github.com/Aylur/dotfiles/tree/ags-pre-ts), [kotontrion](https://github.com/kotontrion/dotfiles).
- EWW: [fufexan](https://github.com/fufexan/dotfiles).

**Last but not least:**
- [The generous sponsors of end_4](https://github.com/sponsors/end-4) for their instrumental support in sustaining long-term development.
- [@outfoxxed](https://github.com/outfoxxed/) for his invaluable support in the creation of the Quickshell version of the dotfiles.
- Developers of every open source project listed as dependencies.
- AI bots for providing useful examples.
- Everyone in the community with kind spirit helping in discussions and support, fostering a welcoming environment.

## Inspirations/Copying

- Inspiration: osu!lazer, Windows 11, Material Design 3, AvdanOS (concept)
- Copying: Redistribution and re-creation are definitely OK as long as you follow the License (GNU GPL v3.0).

[^1]: Thanks to [PR#1060](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/pull/1060) and futher work by clsty, it eventually rescued the dots-hyprland project from a nearly broken status as many users can not complete dependency installation due to the failure of installing python dependencies from AUR.
[^2]: These configs provide helpful references. They thanked more people in their repos btw.
