---
title: Install / Update / Uninstall
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-03-31
---

# Installing
## Before you start

-  This only provides **user-level customization**. Installation of GNOME in the process will likely give you some (basic) system stuff like network, bluetooth, etc., but it is assumed that you've already handled them yourself
-  EndeavourOS is recommended to save you some hassle
   - Other Arch distros will also work fine
   - Using a non-Arch distro? Try to find yours on the [Discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions) page
   - It is never necessary to reinstall your system for dotfiles!

## Automated installation (for Arch distros only)

Clone the repo, switch to branch `ii-ags` and run the install script:
```bash
t=~/.cache/dots-hyprland   # Let's not trash your home folder
git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland.git "$t" --filter=blob:none
git checkout ii-ags
"$t"/install.sh
```
:::

:::tip[Tip]
The script `install.sh` is idempotent and interactive.
You can run it multiple times and choose to only perform certain actions.
:::

## For NixOS (experimental)
- Currently, these dotfiles are not (yet?) offered as a flake.
- Though you can check out [end_4's NixOS flake](https://github.com/end-4/CirnOS)
  - It includes home-manager config. You wanna check the `homes` folder.

- See also https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1093

## For OpenSUSE (experimental)
- See https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/485

## For Fedora (experimental)
- See [the F42-ags branch of EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland](https://github.com/EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland/tree/F42-ags)
  
- See also (older discussion): https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/840
  
## Manual installation (basically any distro)
:::note[Note for non-Arch distros]
You'll have to figure out the equivalents of packages from the value of array `depends` inside those `scriptdata/arch-packages/*/PKGBUILD` later when you install the dependencies.
- To get info of a package (e.g. what executable(s) it provides), search it on [Arch Linux Packages](https://archlinux.org/packages) or the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages).
- If you've successfully finished installation on some non-Arch(-based) Linux distro, you're very welcomed to share the package list (also other steps if needed) in [Discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions), and we could automate the installation for it in the future. Thanks!
:::

- Clone and go to directory
  ```bash
  t=~/.cache/dots-hyprland   # Let's not trash your home folder
  git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland.git "$t" --filter=blob:none
  cd "$t"
  ```
- Get packages: Install all packages listed as the value of array `depends` inside those `scriptdata/arch-packages/*/PKGBUILD`. For Arch Linux, just use an AUR helper such as `yay`.

- Run `manual-install-helper.sh` to install the rest of the dependencies.
  - You may also instead install suitable alternatives as you've found out, but be sure to `git checkout` to the required commit when installing AGS.
- Add user to `video` and `input` group
  ```bash
  sudo usermod -aG video,input "$(whoami)" # if this somehow doesn't work, just replace "$(whoami)" with your username
  ```
- Copy `.config`, `.local` to your home folder (review before doing this or you might have your own config files undesirably overwritten)

- Get started with these keybinds
  - `Ctrl`+`Super`+`T` to select a wallpaper
  - `Super`+`/` for a list of keybinds. Have fun!

# Post installation
## Not so optional stuff
### Qt theming
- Select KVantum in the windows that pop up when running:
```sh
kcmshell6 kcm_style
kcmshell6 kcm_colors
```
### Prevent notification daemon conflicts
- Notification daemons like `dunst` and `mako` may come with your distro's customizations and can interfere with AGS if they somehow start first. It is recommended to uninstall them if you don't use them somewhere else.
## Optional stuff
### Extra configs
See if you're interested in anything in the `Extras` folder.
### Media integration with browser
If you want media thumbnail from your browser to be shown, get the "Plasma browser integration" extension.
- For [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)
- For [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)

### Colorscheme for ZSH
Put this line into your `~/.zshrc` to support colorscheme for ZSH:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/dots-hyprland.zsh
```

## Launching Hyprland
- To launch Hyprland, you can use a DM (Display Manager) or just `tty`.
- Hyprland wiki recommends launching Hyprland with the uswm-managed session, but I don't. Using this does not break the dotfiles, but keep in mind you might get autostarted junk from other desktop environments (for example duplicate authentication dialogs)

See [Hyprland wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Getting-Started/Master-Tutorial/#launching-hyprland) for details. Below are some extra hints.

### How to auto-launch Hyprland after logging in on `tty1`?
For ZSH or BASH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bashrc`:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/auto-Hypr.sh
```

For FISH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:
```fish
source ~/.config/fish/auto-Hypr.fish
```

P.S. It's recommended to disable the DM if you want to launch Hyprland through tty.

### I'm a newbie. What is a tty and DM?

Here's a brief introduction to give you a quick access, though not exactly true.

You may see `tty` as some "basis" of a Linux system.
There're normally 7 `tty`s: `tty1` to `tty7`. You may press `Ctrl+Alt+F<n>` to switch to `tty<n>`, and type your username and password to log in.

After logging in, you're able to launch a graphical environment through command, e.g. `Hyprland`.
Actually, most graphical interfaces could be launched only **after** you login.

But what if we want a graphical interface for the login interface itself?

So, here comes the DM (Display Manager, also called "LM", i.e. Login Manager).
- Some commonly used DM:
  - `sddm`: Often used with KDE Plasma.
  - `gdm`: Often used with Gnome.
- It's enabled on system level, and launches automatically after system booting (not logging in yet).
  - On a systemd-based distro, the DM is usually enabled as a systemd service. Run the following to see which DM is enabled.
    ```bash
    grep 'ExecStart=' /etc/systemd/system/display-manager.service
    ```
    If it returns "No such file or directory", then no DM is enabled, or this is not a systemd-based distro.
- It provides you with a graphical interface to login and choose the graphical environment (e.g. Hyprland).
  - How does the DM know which graphical environments are available?
    - Normally, it searches the path `/usr/share/xsessions` for X11 ones, and `/usr/share/wayland-sessions` for Wayland ones.
    - The desktop files under these directories contain the information of the graphical environments.

# Updating
## Automatically installed
- `cd` to the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Run `./install.sh` again
  - Skip the steps you don't want (especially the `rsync ...` ones because it will **override your files under its target path**).
    Typically you may want the `rsync` step which involves `.config/ags`.

Run `./install.sh -h` to see more usage.
## Manually installed
- `cd` to the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Grab files you want. Typically you may want to grab the `.config/ags` folder.
- Run `manual-install-helper.sh` to update some of the dependencies.

# Uninstalling
- Manual uninstallation is **heavily recommended**
- Currently, there's a script for uninstallation, but it's far from perfect and is not actively maintained.
- Here goes a long explanation if you care:

> The point is that this repo is not a typical "software", but a set of config,
> Therefore it's very hard to make a proper uninstallation script,
> which should revert all changes made by the installation script.
> 
> For example, the installation script will install `yay` (AUR-helper) for you if you don't have one.
> However, what should the uninstallation script do to revert this changes?
> - Remove `yay` or `yay-bin`? Not proper, because you may already have one of them installed by yourself (NOT by the installation script).
> - Even if the installation script had logged the package list installed by the script, it's still not proper to remove `yay` or `yay-bin` when the log showed `yay` or `yay-bin` is installed by the script, because the script can't log its future, and you may have reinstalled `yay` or `yay-bin` another day after the installation script finished, thus they are actually not installed by installation script anymore.
> 
> In conclusion, it's nearly not possible to write a proper uninstallation script.
> You'd better make reverted changes manually as you need.

:::note[Current state]
Since we're now using local PKGBUILDs for Arch(-based) distros, 
the `uninstall.sh` is capable of a suitable uninstallation for Arch/AUR packages, 
but deleting configuration files is still not perfect.

See also https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/838#issuecomment-2406220007
:::
