src/content/docs/en/i-i/02.usage.md, before:

---
title: Usage
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2024-02-24
---

# General
- For a list of keybinds, hit `Super`+`/`

# Overview/launcher
Press `Super` or `Super`+`Tab` to open.

- **Windows**
  - Drag to move them to different workspaces
  - Right-click for a few options
- **Search**
  - <u>Calculation</u>: Type something starting with a number
  - <u>Commands</u>: They'll be detected and shown to you if you type in.
    - Performs a headless execution by default
    - If the command starts with sudo, it'll be launched in `foot` terminal.
  - <u>Directory search</u>: Type a directory starting with `~` or `/`.
    - Subdirectories will be shown if the  path is correct. Activating opens folder/file
    - Hit enter directly on the entry to open the typed folder/file
  - <u>Actions</u>: An actions starts with `>`. See the keybind cheatsheet for a list of actions
  - <u>Apps</u> by default, of course!

# Bar controls
- Media:
  - Top-right corner
    - Middle-click: play/pause media
    - Right-click: next track
    - Scroll: change volume
  - Click the music pill for a controls window
- Brightness: Scroll top-left corner
- Launcher: Middle-click workspace widget
- Virtual keyboard: Right-click workspace widget

# Workspace Groups

## Introduction

By default the bar shows workspaces up to 10. However, many users find themselves needing more than the limit of 10 workspaces. Cluttered workspaces or rearranging windows becomes a hassle as the number of open applications increases.

Workspace Grouping introduces a flexible system that allows for an unlimited number of workspaces (within Hyprland's limit), organized into groups for streamlined navigation and management.

## Key Features

- **Scalable Workspaces**: Go beyond the 10-workspace limit without cluttering workspace bar or overview widget. Create as many workspaces as needed without compromising organization.
- **Workspace Groups**: Workspaces are automatically divided into groups of 10 (e.g., 1-10, 11-20, 21-30). The active workspace determines the visible group in the bar.
- **Keybind Support**: Hyprland keybinds are configured to seamlessly adapt to this feature
  - Pressing `Super` + `3` moves you to workspace 3 if your current workspace is 1-10, or workspace 13 if your current workspace is 11-20

## Benefits

- **Multitasking Mastery**: Effortlessly switch between different tasks or projects by dedicating workspace groups to specific contexts
- **Decluttered Environment**: Maintain a clean and organized desktop experience, even with a high number of workspaces
- **Multi-Monitor Power**: Create monitor-specific workspace groups for an [awesome-wm](https://awesomewm.org/)-inspired workflow
  - E.g. 1-10 in monitor-1, 11-20 in monitor-2, 21-30 in monitors-3, and so on.

## Navigation & Workspace Management

- **Navigating / moving workspaces within a group**: Standard Hyprland keybinds apply.
  - `Super` + `2` → workspace **2** if you're in workspace **1-10 (group 1)**.
  - `Super` + `2` → workspace **12** if you're in workspace **11-20 (group 2)**.
  - `Super` + `Alt` + `3` silently moves focused window → workspace **3** if you're in workspace **1-10 (group 1)**.
  - `Super` + `Alt` + `3` silently moves focused window → workspace **13** if you're in workspace **11-20 (group 2)**.

- **Navigating between groups**:
  - Spawn a new workspace in the next group by navigating beyond the last workspace of the current group. E.g., Press `Super` + `0` to move to workspace 10, and then press `Control` + `Super` + `Right` to move to the next workspace, i.e. 11 in the next group.
  - Alternatively, you can scroll with the cursor over workspace bar to quickly navigate to the next group.
  - Consider adding following Hyprland keybinds for jumping to adjacent workspace groups
    ```ini title="~/.config/hypr/hyprland/keybinds.conf"
    bind = SUPER ALT, Z, workspace, r-10
    bind = SUPER ALT, X, workspace, r+10
    ```
- The overview widget also provides versatile window and workspace management. View all windows and workspaces within a group using `SUPER`, drag-and-drop windows between workspaces in that group, access additional options by right-clicking on any window.
:::tip
If you wish to modify the keybinds or include [more features](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Configuring/Dispatchers/) for workspace navigation, use `${HOME}/.config/ags/scripts/hyprland/workspace_action.sh` script, instead of `hyprctl dispatch`. This will determine the current workspace group using the active workspace ID and dispatch to the proper workspace.
:::

## Multi-Monitor Considerations

Consider these strategies for effective multi-monitor management:
- Allot group 1 (workspaces 1-10) to primary monitor while group 2 (workspaces 11-20) to secondary monitor.
  - On startup, manually move the starting workspace on the secondary monitor into the second group (e.g., workspace 11) using `Super` + `0`, then `Ctrl` + `Super` + `Right`.
  - In effect, this will also create separate overview widget per monitor.
- Use [workspace binding](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Configuring/Workspace-Rules/#rules) to always place specific workspaces on specific monitors. Get all your monitor names using `hyprctl monitors | grep Monitor`.
  ```ini title="~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf"
  # Bind workspaces 1-10 (group 1) to primary monitor
  workspace = 1, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 2, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 3, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 4, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 5, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  ...

  # Bind workspaces 11-20 (group 2) to secondary monitor
  workspace = 11, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 12, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 13, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 14, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 15, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  ...
  ```
- Focus on two workspaces at a time on each monitor and move/swap windows across monitor/groups (using `Super` + `Left/Right/Up/Down` or `Super` + `Shift` + `Left/Right/Up/Down`) as needed.

:::note
Workspace groups is not natively supported in Hyprland, AGS or any status bar programs like Waybar/Polybar. This config tries to achieve this by simply tinkering wth Hyprland dispatcher and few custom AGS modules. If you feel certain elements would benefit from further refinement, feel free to open a discussion or submit a PR.
:::


# Configuring Hyprland
Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/)

- To configure Hyprland, edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` (the main config file) and files in the `~/.config/hypr/hyprland` directory (files in which are sourced by `hyprland.conf`).
  - Hyprland reads `hyprland.conf`. When it sees a `source` keyword, it reads the sourced file, then keeps going.

## Enabling blur for apps
- In `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/rules.conf`, comment out (with a `#`) or remove the following line
```ini
windowrule = noblur,.*  # Disables blur for windows. Substantially improves performance.
```

# Misc
## How to resize the UI / change font size?
Changing the font size will also change the UI scale.
- Using `gsettings`:
```bash
# Syntax
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'FONT_NAME FONT_SIZE'
# Default of these dotfiles
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'Rubik 11'
```

## How to change time format?
Reference: [#228](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/228)

**NOTE**: You may need to run `man date` for time format.

- For the statusbar, edit `~/.config/ags/widgets/bar/system.js`. Change `"%H:%M"` according to the format described [here](https://docs.gtk.org/glib/method.DateTime.format.html).

- For lock screen: edit the value of `timestr` in `~/.config/swaylock/config`.

## How to copy text in notification?
- Click and hold for around 800ms (reference: [#224](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/224#issuecomment-1923706599))

## How to set city for weather widget?
- By default, it's detected by `curl ipinfo.io`.
- You can set the value with the env var `$AGS_WEATHER_CITY`.

For example, if you're in Toronto, you can add the following to `~/.config/hypr/env.conf`:
```ini
env=AGS_WEATHER_CITY, toronto
```

Commit message:

Several updates; really goodbye swaylock

src/content/docs/en/i-i/02.usage.md, after:

---
title: Usage
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2024-02-24
---

# General
- For a list of keybinds, hit `Super`+`/`

# Overview/launcher
Press `Super` or `Super`+`Tab` to open.

- **Windows**
  - Drag to move them to different workspaces
  - Right-click for a few options
- **Search**
  - <u>Calculation</u>: Type something starting with a number
  - <u>Commands</u>: They'll be detected and shown to you if you type in.
    - Performs a headless execution by default
    - If the command starts with sudo, it'll be launched in `foot` terminal.
  - <u>Directory search</u>: Type a directory starting with `~` or `/`.
    - Subdirectories will be shown if the  path is correct. Activating opens folder/file
    - Hit enter directly on the entry to open the typed folder/file
  - <u>Actions</u>: An actions starts with `>`. See the keybind cheatsheet for a list of actions
  - <u>Apps</u> by default, of course!

# Bar controls
- Media:
  - Top-right corner
    - Middle-click: play/pause media
    - Right-click: next track
    - Scroll: change volume
  - Click the music pill for a controls window
- Brightness: Scroll top-left corner
- Launcher: Middle-click workspace widget
- Virtual keyboard: Right-click workspace widget

# Workspace Groups

## Introduction

By default the bar shows workspaces up to 10. However, many users find themselves needing more than the limit of 10 workspaces. Cluttered workspaces or rearranging windows becomes a hassle as the number of open applications increases.

Workspace Grouping introduces a flexible system that allows for an unlimited number of workspaces (within Hyprland's limit), organized into groups for streamlined navigation and management.

## Key Features

- **Scalable Workspaces**: Go beyond the 10-workspace limit without cluttering workspace bar or overview widget. Create as many workspaces as needed without compromising organization.
- **Workspace Groups**: Workspaces are automatically divided into groups of 10 (e.g., 1-10, 11-20, 21-30). The active workspace determines the visible group in the bar (as well the overview widget).
- **Keybind Support**: Hyprland keybinds are configured to seamlessly adapt to this feature
  - Pressing `Super` + `3` moves you to workspace 3 if your current workspace is 1-10, or workspace 13 if your current workspace is 11-20

## Benefits

- **Multitasking Mastery**: Effortlessly switch between different tasks or projects by dedicating workspace groups to specific contexts
- **Decluttered Environment**: Maintain a clean and organized desktop experience, even with a high number of workspaces
- **Multi-Monitor Power**: Create monitor-specific workspace groups for an [awesome-wm](https://awesomewm.org/)-inspired workflow
  - E.g. 1-10 in monitor-1, 11-20 in monitor-2, 21-30 in monitors-3, and so on.

## Navigation & Workspace Management

- **Navigating / moving workspaces within a group**: Standard Hyprland keybinds apply.
  - `Super` + `2` → workspace **2** if you're in workspace **1-10 (group 1)**.
  - `Super` + `2` → workspace **12** if you're in workspace **11-20 (group 2)**.
  - `Super` + `Alt` + `3` silently moves focused window → workspace **3** if you're in workspace **1-10 (group 1)**.
  - `Super` + `Alt` + `3` silently moves focused window → workspace **13** if you're in workspace **11-20 (group 2)**.

- **Navigating between groups**:
  - Spawn a new workspace in the next group by navigating beyond the last workspace of the current group. E.g., Press `Super` + `0` to move to workspace 10, and then press `Control` + `Super` + `Right` to move to the next workspace, i.e. 11 in the next group.
  - Alternatively, you can scroll with the cursor over workspace bar to quickly navigate to the next group.
  - Consider adding following Hyprland keybinds for jumping to adjacent workspace groups
    ```ini title="~/.config/hypr/hyprland/keybinds.conf"
    bind = SUPER ALT, Z, workspace, r-10
    bind = SUPER ALT, X, workspace, r+10
    ```
- The overview widget also provides versatile window and workspace management. View all windows and workspaces within a group using `SUPER`, drag-and-drop windows between workspaces in that group, access additional options by right-clicking on any window.
:::tip
If you wish to modify the keybinds or include [more features](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Configuring/Dispatchers/) for workspace navigation, use `${HOME}/.config/ags/scripts/hyprland/workspace_action.sh` script, instead of `hyprctl dispatch`. This will determine the current workspace group using the active workspace ID and dispatch to the proper workspace.
:::

## Multi-Monitor Considerations

Consider these strategies for effective multi-monitor management:
- Allot group 1 (workspaces 1-10) to primary monitor while group 2 (workspaces 11-20) to secondary monitor.
  - On startup, manually move the starting workspace on the secondary monitor into the second group (e.g., workspace 11) using `Super` + `0`, then `Ctrl` + `Super` + `Right`.
  - In effect, this will also create separate overview widget per monitor.
- Use [workspace binding](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Configuring/Workspace-Rules/#rules) to always place specific workspaces on specific monitors. Get all your monitor names using `hyprctl monitors | grep Monitor`.
  ```ini title="~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf"
  # Bind workspaces 1-10 (group 1) to primary monitor
  workspace = 1, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 2, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 3, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 4, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 5, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  ...

  # Bind workspaces 11-20 (group 2) to secondary monitor
  workspace = 11, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 12, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 13, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 14, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 15, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  ...
  ```
- Focus on two workspaces at a time on each monitor and move/swap windows across monitor/groups (using `Super` + `Left/Right/Up/Down` or `Super` + `Shift` + `Left/Right/Up/Down`) as needed.

:::note
Workspace groups is not natively supported in Hyprland, AGS or any status bar programs like Waybar/Polybar. This config tries to achieve this by simply tinkering wth Hyprland dispatcher and few custom AGS modules. If you feel certain elements would benefit from further refinement, feel free to open a discussion or submit a PR.
:::


# Configuring Hyprland
Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/)

To configure Hyprland, edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` (the main config file) and files in the `~/.config/hypr/hyprland` directory (files in which are sourced by `hyprland.conf`).
- Hyprland reads `hyprland.conf`. When it sees a `source` keyword, it reads the sourced file, then keeps going.

## Enabling blur for apps
In `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/rules.conf`, comment out (with a `#`) or remove the following line
```ini
windowrule = noblur,.*  # Disables blur for windows. Substantially improves performance.
```

# Misc
## How to resize the UI / change font size?
Changing the font size will also change the UI scale.
- Using `gsettings`:
```bash
# Syntax
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'FONT_NAME FONT_SIZE'
# Default of these dotfiles
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'Rubik 11'
```

## How to change time format?
Reference: [#228](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/228)

**NOTE**: You may need to run `man date` for time format.

- For the statusbar, edit `~/.config/ags/widgets/bar/system.js`. Change `"%H:%M"` according to the format described [here](https://docs.gtk.org/glib/method.DateTime.format.html).

- For lock screen: edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprlock.conf`. Change the value of the `text` **which corresponds to the lock**, according to [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprlock/).

## How to copy text in notification?
- Click and hold for around 800ms (reference: [#224](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/224#issuecomment-1923706599))

## How to set city for weather widget?
- By default, it's detected by `curl ipinfo.io`.
- You can set the value with the env var `$AGS_WEATHER_CITY`.

For example, if you're in Toronto, you can add the following to `~/.config/hypr/env.conf`:
```ini
env=AGS_WEATHER_CITY, toronto
```
