---
title: Usage
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2024-03-18
---

# General
Firstly, for a list of keybinds, hit `Super`+`/` .

It also includes some Actions for the launcher.

## Overview/launcher
Press `Super` or `Super`+`Tab` to open.

- **Windows**
  - Drag to move them to different workspaces
  - Right-click for a few options
- **Search**
  - <u>Calculation</u>: Type something starting with a number
  - <u>Commands</u>: They'll be detected and shown to you if you type in.
    - Performs a headless execution by default
    - If the command starts with sudo, it'll be launched in `foot` terminal.
  - <u>Directory search</u>: Type a directory starting with `~` or `/`.
    - Subdirectories will be shown if the path is correct. Activating opens folder/file
    - Hit enter directly on the entry to open the typed folder/file
  - <u>Actions</u>: Each action starts with a `>`. See the **keybind cheatsheet** for a list
  - <u>Apps</u> by default, of course!

## Bar controls
- Media:
  - Top-right corner
    - Middle-click: play/pause media
    - Right-click: next track
    - Scroll: change volume
  - Click the music pill for a controls window
- Brightness: Scroll top-left corner
- Launcher/Overview: Right-click workspace widget
- Virtual keyboard: Middle-click workspace widget
- Copy text in notification: Click and hold for around 800ms (reference: [#224](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/224#issuecomment-1923706599))
- Workspaces:
  - Scroll to switch workspaces
  - Click on a workspace to focus
  - Click side button (on gaming mice) to toggle special workspace (scratchpad)

# Workspace Groups

## Introduction

By default the bar shows workspaces up to 10. However, many users find themselves needing more than the limit of 10 workspaces. Cluttered workspaces or rearranging windows becomes a hassle as the number of open applications increases.

Workspace Grouping introduces a flexible system that allows for an unlimited number of workspaces (within Hyprland's limit), organized into groups for streamlined navigation and management.

- **Key Features**
  - **Scalable Workspaces**: Go beyond the 10-workspace limit without cluttering workspace bar or overview widget. Create as many workspaces as needed without compromising organization.
  - **Workspace Groups**: Workspaces are automatically divided into groups of 10 (e.g., 1-10, 11-20, 21-30). The active workspace determines the visible group in the bar (as well the overview widget).
  - **Keybind Support**: Hyprland keybinds are configured to seamlessly adapt to this feature
    - Pressing `Super` + `3` moves you to workspace 3 if your current workspace is 1-10, or workspace 13 if your current workspace is 11-20

- **Benefits**
  - **Multitasking Mastery**: Effortlessly switch between different tasks or projects by dedicating workspace groups to specific contexts
  - **Decluttered Environment**: Maintain a clean and organized desktop experience, even with a high number of workspaces
  - **Multi-Monitor Power**: Create monitor-specific workspace groups for an [awesome-wm](https://awesomewm.org/)-inspired workflow
    - E.g. 1-10 in monitor-1, 11-20 in monitor-2, 21-30 in monitors-3, and so on.

## Navigation & Workspace Management

- **Navigating / moving workspaces within a group**: Standard Hyprland keybinds apply.
  - `Super` + `2` → workspace **2** if you're in workspace **1-10 (group 1)**.
  - `Super` + `2` → workspace **12** if you're in workspace **11-20 (group 2)**.
  - `Super` + `Alt` + `3` silently moves focused window → workspace **3** if you're in workspace **1-10 (group 1)**.
  - `Super` + `Alt` + `3` silently moves focused window → workspace **13** if you're in workspace **11-20 (group 2)**.

- **Navigating between groups**:
  - Spawn a new workspace in the next group by navigating beyond the last workspace of the current group. E.g., Press `Super` + `0` to move to workspace 10, and then press `Control` + `Super` + `Right` to move to the next workspace, i.e. 11 in the next group.
  - Alternatively, you can scroll with the cursor over workspace bar to quickly navigate to the next group.
  - Consider adding following Hyprland keybinds for jumping to adjacent workspace groups
    ```ini title="~/.config/hypr/hyprland/keybinds.conf"
    bind = SUPER ALT, Z, workspace, r-10
    bind = SUPER ALT, X, workspace, r+10
    ```
- The overview widget also provides versatile window and workspace management. View all windows and workspaces within a group using `SUPER`, drag-and-drop windows between workspaces in that group, access additional options by right-clicking on any window.
:::tip
If you wish to modify the keybinds or include [more features](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Configuring/Dispatchers/) for workspace navigation, use `${HOME}/.config/ags/scripts/hyprland/workspace_action.sh` script, instead of `hyprctl dispatch`. This will determine the current workspace group using the active workspace ID and dispatch to the proper workspace.
:::

## Multi-Monitor Considerations

Consider these strategies for effective multi-monitor management:
- Allot group 1 (workspaces 1-10) to primary monitor while group 2 (workspaces 11-20) to secondary monitor.
  - On startup, manually move the starting workspace on the secondary monitor into the second group (e.g., workspace 11) using `Super` + `0`, then `Ctrl` + `Super` + `Right`.
  - In effect, this will also create separate overview widget per monitor.
- Use [workspace binding](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Configuring/Workspace-Rules/#rules) to always place specific workspaces on specific monitors. Get all your monitor names using `hyprctl monitors | grep Monitor`.
  ```ini title="~/.config/custom/general.conf"
  # Bind workspaces 1-10 (group 1) to primary monitor
  workspace = 1, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  workspace = 2, monitor:eDP-1, default:true
  ...

  # Bind workspaces 11-20 (group 2) to secondary monitor
  workspace = 11, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  workspace = 12, monitor:HDMI-A-1, default:true
  ...
  ```
- Focus on two workspaces at a time on each monitor and move/swap windows across monitor/groups (using `Super` + `Left/Right/Up/Down` or `Super` + `Shift` + `Left/Right/Up/Down`) as needed.

:::note
Workspace groups is not natively supported in Hyprland, AGS or any status bar programs like Waybar/Polybar. This config tries to achieve this by simply tinkering wth Hyprland dispatcher and few custom AGS modules. If you feel certain elements would benefit from further refinement, feel free to open a [Discussion](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions) or submit a PR.
:::

# Focus mode
- To toggle, hit `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `/`
- The bar's width will be halved
- Only the workspace indicator will be shown without numbers
- It turns red when battery is low

# Configuring Hyprland
The following and also many other things are powered by Hyprland.
- global keybindings
- environment variables
- display/monitors/workspaces
- window animations/decorations
- ...

Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/)

To configure Hyprland, edit the files under `~/.config/hypr/custom/` which are sourced by `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`).
- Hyprland reads `hyprland.conf`. When it sees a `source` keyword, it reads the sourced file, then keeps going.

The `install.sh` script will **not** overwrite `~/.config/hypr/custom/`.

Also, as for `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, it will not be overwritten when it exists, but a `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf.new` will be generated. The `*.new` file is only for format reference, and has no effect at all.

:::caution
To override the default configs, you may need to use some techniques, such as `unbind` for keybinds.

And if you're not able to override something, you can copy the default config file from `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/` to `~/.config/hypr/custom/`, and edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to comment out the line which source the default config file.

But if you find something wrong with Hyprland after updating using `install.sh`, you need to re-check `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to see if the commented-out default config file contains some neccessary changes.
:::

## Enabling blur for apps
In `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/rules.conf`, comment out (with a `#`) or remove the following line
```ini
windowrule = noblur,.*  # Disables blur for windows. Substantially improves performance.
```

# Configuring AGS
The following and also some other things are powered by AGS.
- top bar
- side bars
- cheatsheet
- notification
- overview widget

## For end users
Edit `~/.config/ags/user_options.js`, which won't be overwritten by `install.sh` when you update
You can configure stuff like
- Default ChatGPT-like assistant provider
- Animation speed
- Time format
- ...

:::note
For configs that are not limited to AGS, see the "Misc" section.
:::
### Set date and time format

In `~/.config/ags/user_options.js`, edit the "time" section according to [this format](https://docs.gtk.org/glib/method.DateTime.format.html).
You may also run `man date` for time format.

### Set city for weather widget
When no battery is detected (typically a desktop computer), the battery widget and the utility widget will not be displayed.
Instead, a weather widget will appear in this position.

The city for weather is detected by `curl ipinfo.io` by default, or explicitly set in `~/.config/ags/user_options.js`.

### Set keybinds
The keybinds to be configured are limited and you need to refer to gdk document to know the keys, but it works.

See [#5](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland-wiki/issues/5) for more.
### Custom widget
You can use the output of a bash script for a widget. If `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-poll.sh` exists, AGS will display its output every 5000ms by default in place of system resources indicators

For example, to display the available storage space of path `/`:
```bash title="~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-poll.sh"
#!/bin/bash
export LANG=C
disk_info=$(df -h /)
available=$(echo "$disk_info" | awk 'NR==2 {print $4}')
total=$(echo "$disk_info" | awk 'NR==2 {print $2}')
echo "$available/$total"
```
And a less configurable 2-line version, if you prefer:
```bash title="~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-poll.sh"
#!/bin/bash
LANG=C df -h / | awk 'NR==2 {printf "%s/%s\n", $4, $2}'
```

:::note
Remember to make your script executable!
```bash
chmod +x ~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/*.sh
```
:::

For futher customization:
- Polling interval, in milliseconds: `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-interval.txt` (default = 5000)
- Left-click action script: `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-leftclick.sh`
- Right-click action script: `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-rightclick.sh`
## For nerds (doubts you aren't)
- See [AGS Docs](https://aylur.github.io/ags-docs)
- Also Dev notes (see the sidebar)


# Misc
## Resize the UI / change font size
Changing the font size will also change the UI scale for AGS.
- Using `gsettings`:
```bash
# Syntax
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'FONT_NAME FONT_SIZE'
# Default of these dotfiles
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'Rubik 11'
```

## Configure Lock screen
Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprlock/)

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprlock.conf`.

For example, to set the date and time format, change the value of the `text` **which corresponds to the lock**.

## Cloudflare WARP
- This might help you bypass your ISP's restrictions and provide a faster internet
- There will be a button on the right sidebar to toggle WARP if it's installed
- To install Cloudflare WARP, run `yay -S cloudflare-warp-bin && sudo systemctl enable warp-svc --now`

