---
title: Configuration
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2024-03-18
---

# Configuring Hyprland
The following and also many other things are powered by Hyprland.
- global keybindings
- environment variables
- display/monitors/workspaces
- window animations/decorations
- ...

Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/)

To configure Hyprland, edit the files under `~/.config/hypr/custom/` which are sourced by `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`).
- Hyprland reads `hyprland.conf`. When it sees a `source` keyword, it reads the sourced file, then keeps going.

The `install.sh` script will **not** overwrite `~/.config/hypr/custom/`.

Also, as for `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, it will not be overwritten when it exists, but a `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf.new` will be generated. The `*.new` file is only for format reference, and has no effect at all.

:::caution
To override the default configs, you may need to use some techniques, such as `unbind` for keybinds.

And if you're not able to override something, you can copy the default config file from `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/` to `~/.config/hypr/custom/`, and edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to comment out the line which source the default config file.

But if you find something wrong with Hyprland after updating using `install.sh`, you need to re-check `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to see if the commented-out default config file contains some neccessary changes.
:::

## Enabling blur for apps
In `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/rules.conf`, comment out (with a `#`) or remove the following line
```ini
windowrule = noblur,.*  # Disables blur for windows. Substantially improves performance.
```

# Configuring AGS
The following and also some other things are powered by AGS.
- top bar
- side bars
- cheatsheet
- notification
- overview widget

## For end users
Edit `~/.config/ags/user_options.js`, which won't be overwritten by `install.sh` when you update
You can configure stuff like
- Default ChatGPT-like assistant provider
- Animation speed
- Time format
- ...

:::note
For configs that are not limited to AGS, see the "Misc" section.
:::
### Set date and time format

In `~/.config/ags/user_options.js`, edit the "time" section according to [this format](https://docs.gtk.org/glib/method.DateTime.format.html).
You may also run `man date` for time format.

### Set city for weather widget
When no battery is detected (typically a desktop computer), the battery widget and the utility widget will not be displayed.
Instead, a weather widget will appear in this position.

The city for weather is detected by `curl ipinfo.io` by default, or explicitly set in `~/.config/ags/user_options.js`.

### Set keybinds
The keybinds to be configured are limited and you need to refer to gdk document to know the keys, but it works.

See [#5](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland-wiki/issues/5) for more.
### Custom widget
You can use the output of a bash script for a widget. If `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-poll.sh` exists, AGS will display its output every 5000ms by default in place of system resources indicators

For example, to display the available storage space of path `/`:
```bash title="~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-poll.sh"
#!/bin/bash
export LANG=C
disk_info=$(df -h /)
available=$(echo "$disk_info" | awk 'NR==2 {print $4}')
total=$(echo "$disk_info" | awk 'NR==2 {print $2}')
echo "$available/$total"
```
And a less configurable 2-line version, if you prefer:
```bash title="~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-poll.sh"
#!/bin/bash
LANG=C df -h / | awk 'NR==2 {printf "%s/%s\n", $4, $2}'
```

:::note
Remember to make your script executable!
```bash
chmod +x ~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/*.sh
```
:::

For futher customization:
- Polling interval, in milliseconds: `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-interval.txt` (default = 5000)
- Left-click action script: `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-leftclick.sh`
- Right-click action script: `~/.cache/ags/user/scripts/custom-module-rightclick.sh`
## For nerds (doubts you aren't)
- See [AGS Docs](https://aylur.github.io/ags-docs)
- Also Dev notes (see the sidebar)


# Misc
## Resize the UI / change font size
Changing the font size will also change the UI scale for AGS.
- Using `gsettings`:
```bash
# Syntax
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'FONT_NAME FONT_SIZE'
# Default of these dotfiles
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'Rubik 11'
```

## Configure Screen Lock
### Auto Screen Lock
Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/)

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` to your needs.
### Custom Hyprlock
Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprlock/)

Hyprlock is the default screenlock provider.

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprlock.conf` as you want.

For example, to set the date and time format, change the value of the `text` **which corresponds to the lock**.
### Use another screenlock provider
Reference: [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Session_lock)

Take `swaylock` as example.

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` and modify the value of `$lock_cmd` as follows:
```conf
$lock_cmd = swaylock
```
And ensure hypridle is running (typically it should autostart if you have `exec-once = hypridle` in Hyprland config).

As a result, `loginctl lock-session` will call `swaylock` to lock the screen.

:::note[How]
The command `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to the running `hypridle` process, and then `hypridle` will trigger the command from the value of `$lock_cmd`.
:::

## Cloudflare WARP
- This might help you bypass your ISP's restrictions and provide a faster internet
- There will be a button on the right sidebar to toggle WARP if it's installed
- To install Cloudflare WARP, run `yay -S cloudflare-warp-bin && sudo systemctl enable warp-svc --now`

