---
title: Troubleshooting
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2024-02-24
---

:::tip[Tip]
Press `Ctrl`+`F` to search or see the right sidebar to find your problem
:::

# Hints

- If there's a problem with something, the first thing to do is to fire up a terminal (`Super`+`T`) and run it. Look for errors/warnings that could be problematic.
- The bar, sidebars, cheatsheet, etc. are powered by AGS. Open a terminal and run `pkill ags; ags`

> Use some common sense. If you can't figure out, [open a discussion](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions) for help.

# Some problems

## Music controls don't show up
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#168](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/168)

- Make sure your player has Mpris support (a list: [Arch Wiki link](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/MPRIS))
- If it's a browser, install the Plasma Integration extension: [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/) or [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai) and `plasma-browser-integration` (this is for Arch)

Then, when firefox is playing media, the following command
```bash
dbus-send --print-reply --dest=org.freedesktop.DBus /org/freedesktop/DBus org.freedesktop.DBus.ListNames|grep mpris
```
the output should include
```plain
string "org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration"
```
Only "plasma-browser-integration" names will work. others won't.

If for some reason, firefox still does not have dbus `org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration` showing up,
consider the following steps:
1. Create a new profile using `firefox --ProfileManager`.
2. Launch firefox with the newprofile and install the Plasma Integration extension again.
3. Restart firefox with the new profile and try again.
- _Note: `playerctl -F metadata` may also be helpful for debugging._

## Icons don't show up. I get weird texts instead.
- You must be missing the Material Symbols font. You can download the font manually then put it in `~/.local/share/fonts`
- Note that it's Material <u>**Symbols**</u>, not Material <u>**Icons**</u>!
- Remember to `fc-cache -fv` to refresh font cache. A reboot will also work.

## AGS installation failed
### `PermissionError: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '/usr/local/lib/libgvc.so'`
Run this to check whether this file belongs to any package (very likely not, because it's inside `/usr/local`)
```bash
pacman -Qo /usr/local/lib/libgvc.so
```
If not, then it's probably safe to just remove it. To do so, run this:
```bash
sudo mv /usr/local/lib/libgvc.so /tmp/
```

### Other errors
Delete `./cache/ags` and install it again.

## `loginctl lock-session` does nothing
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#278](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/278)

According to [this post on Arch Linux Forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1311990#p1311990):
> Something needs to listen to systemd-logind's dbus signals for this to work.

Hypridle is capable to be this "thing", which means you should ensure that it is running,
and then `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to hypridle,
as a result hypridle will lock the screen by executing the `$lock_cmd` defined in its config `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf`.

See [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/#configuration) for more.

## Terminal: Why can't I interrupt with Ctrl+C?
- In `foot`, Ctrl+C is configured to copy text. To interrupt, use Ctrl+Shift+C
- Don't want this?
  - To remove this binding: in `~/.config/foot/foot.ini`, comment or remove the line that says `clipboard-copy=Control+c`
  - Maybe if you use terminal apps a lot, it'd be a good idea to use a more feature-rich terminal

