---
title: Troubleshooting
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2024-02-24
---

:::tip[Tip]
On this page, press `Ctrl`+`F` to search or see the right sidebar to find your problem
:::

# Prerequisite for environment variable
:::note
We've already given you related notice in `install.sh` but some users ignored it when submitting issues.
:::

The environment variable `$ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV` must be set properly, else the AGS config will not work.

We've made a default config in `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/env.conf` but you need to make sure this config file is included in `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`. A restart for Hyprland is often required.

You may run `./diagnose` to recheck its value. The output should contain something like this:
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="/home/myself/.local/state/ags/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
Where `myself` represents the actual username. It should not be something like below:
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
./diagnose: line 30: declare: ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV: not found
[---EXIT 1---]
```
For the case above:
- It's very likely that you're still using old `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, and forgot to replace its content with `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf.new`. Just run `cd ~/.config/hypr;mv hyprland.conf{,.old};mv hyprland.conf{.new,}`.
- Ensure you have restarted Hyprland.

Or
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="\$XDG_STATE_HOME/ags/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
For the case above, the `$XDG_STATE_HOME` is not expanded, which seems really weird (maybe a Hyprland bug?).
- Make sure that when you run `install.sh`, you have not skipped and have properly executed the `install-python-packages()`, which should give you a non-empty `~/.local/state/ags/.venv`.
- You may directly specify its value in `~/.config/hypr/custom/env.conf` as:
```conf
env = ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV, /home/myself/.local/state/ags/.venv
```
And remember to replace `myself` with actual username.

# Hints

- If there's a problem with something, the first thing to do is to fire up a terminal (`Super`+`T`) and run it. Look for errors/warnings that could be problematic.
- The bar, sidebars, cheatsheet, etc. are powered by AGS. Open a terminal and run `pkill agsv1; agsv1`.
- The script `install.sh` is idempotent, so you may run it again anytime.

> Use some common sense. If you can't figure out, [open a discussion](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions) for help.

# Some problems

## AGS / bars theme/icons/CSS breaks/not working
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#1010](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/1010)

Switch a wallpaper by pressing `Super+Ctrl+T` and choosing a picture in prompted window.

## icon of some application missing in dock/overview
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#497 comment](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/497#issuecomment-2108212444) [end-4/dots-hyprland#487](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/487)

Please try following:
### Use `gsettings` to set icon theme
:::note
This is suitable for the following situation:
- The class of the application window has exact matching icon in icon theme A, but not B.
- You're using icon theme B, which means problem get solved after you switch to icon theme A.
:::

For example [Papirus](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme) (recommended, as it covers lots of applications):
```sh
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface icon-theme Papirus
```
Of course you must install it first, for Arch Linux use `sudo pacman -S papirus-icon-theme`.

### Use `gsettings` to set icon theme
:::note
This is suitable for the following situation:
- The application has more than one kinds of window class name (e.g. `foot` and `footclient`), but only one of them (e.g. `foot`) has exact matching icon in current icon theme.
- You're OK with using the same icon for those different window class (e.g. same icon for `foot` and `footclient`).
:::

Edit `~/.config/ags/user_options.js`, add entry inside `icons.substitutions`, for example:
```js
    'icons': {
        substitutions: {
            'footclient': "foot",
        },
    },
```

:::note
For first time editing this file, see the instructions at the beginning of `user_options.js` first.
:::

### Set icon search path
This is suitable for you have icon file seperately.

Modify the `icons.searchPaths` inside `~/.config/ags/user_options.js` properly.

## Music controls don't show up
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#168](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/168)

- Make sure your player has Mpris support (a list: [Arch Wiki link](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/MPRIS))
- If it's a browser, install the Plasma Integration extension: [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/) or [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai) and `plasma-browser-integration` (this is for Arch)

Then, when firefox is playing media, the following command
```bash
dbus-send --print-reply --dest=org.freedesktop.DBus /org/freedesktop/DBus org.freedesktop.DBus.ListNames|grep mpris
```
the output should include
```plain
string "org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration"
```
Only "plasma-browser-integration" names will work. others won't.

If for some reason, firefox still does not have dbus `org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration` showing up,
consider the following steps:
1. Create a new profile using `firefox --ProfileManager`.
2. Launch firefox with the newprofile and install the Plasma Integration extension again.
3. Restart firefox with the new profile and try again.
- _Note: `playerctl -F metadata` may also be helpful for debugging._

## Icons don't show up. I get weird texts instead.
- You must be missing the Material Symbols font. You can download the font manually then put it in `~/.local/share/fonts`
- Note that it's Material <u>**Symbols**</u>, not Material <u>**Icons**</u>!
- Remember to `fc-cache -fv` to refresh font cache. A reboot will also work.

## AGS installation failed
### `PermissionError: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '/usr/local/lib/libgvc.so'`
Run this to check whether this file belongs to any package (very likely not, because it's inside `/usr/local`)
```bash
pacman -Qo /usr/local/lib/libgvc.so
```
If not, then it's probably safe to just remove it. To do so, run this:
```bash
sudo mv /usr/local/lib/libgvc.so /tmp/
```

### Other errors
Delete `./cache/ags` and install it again.

## Hyprland installation failed
Sometimes the AUR package doesn't install all the dependencies for you. Hyprland is always evolving and this happens when something new is added
- Check the logs and see if it tells you to install something, then attempt to build it again
- Note: You might have to clear `~/.cache/yay`

## `loginctl lock-session` does nothing
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#278](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/278)

According to [this post on Arch Linux Forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1311990#p1311990):
> Something needs to listen to systemd-logind's dbus signals for this to work.

Hypridle is capable to be this "thing", which means you should ensure that it is running,
and then `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to hypridle,
as a result hypridle will lock the screen by executing the `$lock_cmd` defined in its config `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf`.

See [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/#configuration) for more.

## Terminal: Why can't I interrupt with Ctrl+C?
- In `foot`, Ctrl+C is configured to copy text. To interrupt, use Ctrl+Shift+C
- Don't want this?
  - To remove this binding: in `~/.config/foot/foot.ini`, comment or remove the line that says `clipboard-copy=Control+c`
  - Maybe if you use terminal apps a lot, it'd be a good idea to use a more feature-rich terminal

## Random freeze
:::note
This is not related to illogical-impulse technically.
:::
See https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/746 .

