---
title: Install / Update / Uninstall
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-10-19
---

# Installing
:::caution[Before we start]
- **Only user-level customization** is provided. You are responsible for other software/configuration for basic functionality of your system.
- **It is not necessary to reinstall your system.**
:::

:::note[Distro support]
- Automated: see the section [Automated Installation](#automated-installation) below.
- Manually: see the section [Manual Installation](#manual-installation) below.
- Forks: see the section [Forks](#forks) below.
:::

:::tip[Migration from AGS version]
*Skip this if you aren't using the old AGS version or figure out yourself if not using Arch Linux*

The Quickshell version should work just fine after installation, but you can uninstall the old packages before installing the new ones:

```sh
sudo pacman -Rs $(pacman -Q | grep "illogical-impulse-" | awk '{print $1}')
```

then perform installation.
:::

## Automated installation
:::note[Distro support]
- **Officially supported:**
  - Arch Linux
    - [clsty](https://github.com/clsty) (the developer of install scripts) uses and recommends Arch Linux: "The vanilla Arch Linux just works. EndeavourOS is also OK because it's using almost the same package repos (except [this one](https://github.com/endeavouros-team/repo)) as Arch Linux."
  - EndeavourOS
    - [end-4](https://github.com/end-4) (the developer of dotfiles) uses and recommends EndeavourOS: "You don't have to, but it makes things much easier compared to normal Arch."
- **Partially supported:**
  - Other Arch(-based) distros, such as CachyOS, Manjaro, etc.
    - These distros use different package repos as Arch Linux, so it's possible that things do not work as expected.
    - We especially recommend against Manjaro because it has relatively poor compatibility with AUR.
- **Provided by community:**
  - Gentoo (see [sdist/gentoo/README.md](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/blob/main/sdist/gentoo/README.md) for details).
:::

:::caution[PR welcomed for other distros]
`./setup install` is now designed to select distro automatically,
and we need help to support other distros.

See [this page](../../dev/inst-script/#help-wanted) for details.
:::

Just run this one line:
```bash
bash <(curl -s https://ii.clsty.link/setup)
```
That's it!
- Follow the prompts until it's finished.
- What it does is just cloning the repo to `~/.cache/dots-hyprland` and `cd` there and then running `./setup install`. Alternatively, you can do this manually:
  ```bash
  cd ~/Downloads # whereever you want
  git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland
  cd dots-hyprland
  ./setup install
  ```

:::note[Changed domain]
You might've noticed that the domain of this wiki (with the script above) has changed from `end-4.github.io` to `ii.clsty.link`. This gives you a shorter link to type in case you're doing this from a tty, and content is still served by GitHub Pages. If you add the `-L` flag to the above `curl` command and use the link `https://end-4.github.io/dots-hyprland-wiki/setup` it would also work. More info at [issue#28](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland-wiki/issues/28).
:::

:::tip[Using subcommand install]
The subcommand `install` of `./setup` is idempotent and interactive.

You can always re-run it and choose to only perform certain actions.

It's useful when you want to resume a failed attempt or update.
:::

:::tip[Clone to a different path]
To clone to somewhere else, just append the path, e.g.
```bash
bash <(curl -s https://ii.clsty.link/setup) ~/Downloads/dots-hyprland
```
:::

## Forks
The following links are about community forks for other distros.
:::caution
- They were created at the old time when install scripts did not support non-Arch distros.
- Some of them are for the old illogical-impulse on AGS.
:::

- NixOS
  - See [discussion #1093](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1093)
- OpenSUSE
  - See [discussion #485](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/485)
- Fedora
  - See [EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland](https://github.com/EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland)
  - See also (older discussion): [discussion #840](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/840)
  
## Manual installation
Distro support: basically any distro.

:::caution
This section only exists for demonstration. 

It's highly unrecommended to use, because it can waste lots of time from you.
:::

### Clone and go to directory

```bash
t=~/.cache/dots-hyprland   # Let's not trash your home folder
git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland.git "$t" --filter=blob:none
cd "$t"
```

### Install the dependencies
For Arch(-based) distros:
- Install all packages listed as the value of array `depends` inside those `./sdist/arch/*/PKGBUILD`. Just use an AUR helper such as `yay`.
  - You may also instead install suitable alternatives as you've found out.

For non-Arch distros:
- Figure out the equivalents of the packages which `sdist/arch/install-deps.sh` installed. They are mainly from the value of array `depends` inside those `./sdist/arch/*/PKGBUILD`, and then install them.
- To get info of a package (e.g. what executable(s) it provides), search it on [Arch Linux Packages](https://archlinux.org/packages) or the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages).
- `sdist/fallback/install-deps.sh` also contains some installing functions for some dependencies as alternative, which are not distro-specific but out of control from the system package manager. Better avoid using them if possible.
- If you've successfully finished installation on some non-Arch(-based) Linux distro, you may create an `sdist/<DISTRO_ID>/` directory and submit a PR. For details see [this page](../../dev/inst-script/#help-wanted).
  - Run `./diagnose` to get the actual value of `<DISTRO_ID>` after `distro ID:`.

### Setups for permission/services etc
Read the content of `sdist/arch/install-setups.sh`.
- If you think it's just fine, then just run `./install -f --skip-alldeps --skip-allfiles` which will run this script.
  - Do not run `sdist/arch/install-setups.sh` directly because it's meant to be sourced by `./setup install`.
- Or, run the lines in this script manually with your tweaks.

### Copying config files
- Copy `dots/*` to your `$HOME/` (review before doing this or you might have your own config files undesirably overwritten)
- Or, read `sdata/step/3.install-files.sh`.
  - If you think it's just fine, then just run `./setup install --skip-alldeps --skip-allsetups` which will run this script.
  - Do not run `sdata/step/3.install-files.sh` directly because it's meant to be sourced by `./setup install`.

### Finish
- Once you're done, log in again into Hyprland.
  - `Ctrl`+`Super`+`T` to select a wallpaper.
  - `Super`+`/` for a list of keybinds. Have fun!

# Post installation
## Not so optional stuff

### Prevent notification daemon conflicts
- Notification daemons like `dunst` and `mako` may come with your distro's customizations and can interfere with Quickshell's implementation. It is recommended to uninstall them if you don't use them anywhere else.

## Optional stuff

### Extra configs

See if you're interested in anything in the `dots-extra/` folder.

### Media integration with browser

If you want media thumbnail from your browser to be shown, get the "Plasma browser integration" extension.
- For [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)
- For [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)

### Colorscheme for ZSH
Put this line into your `~/.zshrc` to support colorscheme for ZSH:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/dots-hyprland.zsh
```

## Launching Hyprland
- To launch Hyprland, you can use a DM (Display Manager) or just `tty`.
- Hyprland wiki recommends launching Hyprland with the uswm-managed session, but we don't. Using this does not break the dotfiles, but you might get autostarted junk from other desktop environments (for example duplicate authentication dialogs)

See [Hyprland wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Getting-Started/Master-Tutorial/#launching-hyprland) for details. Below are some extra hints.

### How to auto-launch Hyprland after logging in on `tty1`?
For ZSH or BASH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bashrc`:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/auto-Hypr.sh
```

For FISH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:
```fish
source ~/.config/fish/auto-Hypr.fish
```

P.S. It's recommended to disable the DM if you want to launch Hyprland through tty.

### I'm a newbie. What is a tty and DM?

Here's a brief introduction to give you a quick access, though **not exactly true**.

You may see `tty` as some "basis" of a Linux system.
There're normally 7 `tty`s: `tty1` to `tty7`. You may press `Ctrl+Alt+F<n>` to switch to `tty<n>`, and type your username and password to log in.

After logging in, you're able to launch a graphical environment through command, e.g. `Hyprland`.
Commonly, the graphical interfaces could be launched only **after** you login.

But what if we want a graphical interface for the login interface itself?

So, here comes the DM (Display Manager, also called "LM", i.e. Login Manager).
- Some commonly used DM:
  - `sddm`: Often used with KDE Plasma.
  - `gdm`: Often used with Gnome.
- It's enabled on system level, and launches automatically after system booting (not logging in yet).
  - On a systemd-based distro, the DM is usually enabled as a systemd service. Run the following to see which DM is enabled.
    ```bash
    grep 'ExecStart=' /etc/systemd/system/display-manager.service
    ```
    If it returns `No such file or directory`, then no DM is enabled, or this is not a systemd-based distro.
- It provides you with a graphical interface to login and choose the graphical environment (e.g. Hyprland).
  - How does the DM know which graphical environments are available?
    - Normally, it searches the path `/usr/share/xsessions` for X11 ones, and `/usr/share/wayland-sessions` for Wayland ones.
    - The desktop files under these directories contain the information of the graphical environments.

# Updating
- `cd` into the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Run `./setup install` again
  - Skip the steps you don't want (especially the `rsync ...` ones because it will **override your files under its target path**).
    Typically you may want the `rsync` step which involves `dots/.config/quickshell`.

:::tip
Run `./setup install -h` to see more usage.
:::

:::caution[If you installed manually]
Though highly unrecommended, if you installed manually, then:
- `cd` to the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Grab files you want. Typically you may want to grab the `dots/.config/quickshell` folder.
:::

# Uninstalling

:::note[Current state]
Since we're now using local PKGBUILDs for Arch(-based) distros, 
the `./setup exp-uninstall` is capable of a suitable uninstallation for Arch/AUR packages, 
but deleting configuration files is still not perfect.

See also https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/838#issuecomment-2406220007
:::

- You can try using `./setup exp-uninstall`, but it's not perfect and not actively maintained.
- Manual uninstallation hint for Arch Linux:
  - Run `pacman -Q | grep illogical-impulse` for a list of packages the dotfiles requires
  - Run `yay -Rs PACKAGE_NAME` for each package from the above command
- Here goes a long explanation if you care:

> The point is that this repo is not a typical "software", but a set of config,
> so it's very hard to make a proper uninstallation script,
> which should revert all changes made by the installation script.
> 
> For example, the installation script will install `yay` (AUR-helper) for you if you don't have one.
> However, what should the uninstallation script do to revert this changes?
> - Remove `yay` or `yay-bin`? Not proper, because you may already have one of them installed by yourself (not by the installation script).
> - Even if the installation script had logged the package list installed by the script, it's still not proper to remove `yay` or `yay-bin` when the log showed `yay` or `yay-bin` is installed by the script, because the script can't log its future, and you may have reinstalled `yay` or `yay-bin` another day after the installation script finished, thus they are actually not installed by installation script anymore.
> 
> In conclusion, it's nearly not possible to write a proper uninstallation script.
> You'd better make reverted changes manually as you need.
