src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/01.setup.md, before:

---
title: Install / Update / Uninstall
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-03-31
---

# Installing
## Before we start

- **Only user-level customization** is provided. You are responsible for other software/configuration for basic functionality of your system.
- **Distro support**
  - The provided installation script works for Arch Linux distros
  - For other distros, see below (Note: at the time of writing they're instructions for the AGS version, not Quickshell version, but they might be helpful)
  - end-4 uses and recommends EndeavourOS. You don't have to, but it makes things much easier compared to normal Arch
- **It is not necessary to reinstall your system**

## Automated installation (Arch distros only)

**The recommended method**

Run this one line and follow the prompts:
```bash
bash <(curl -s "https://end-4.github.io/dots-hyprland-wiki/setup.sh")
```
The above clones the repo to `~/.cache/dots-hyprland`. To make that somewhere else, specify a path as another argument

:::note[Alternative method]
If you want to type a shorter link
```bash
cd ~/Downloads # whereever you want
git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland
cd dots-hyprland
./install.sh
```
:::

:::tip[Tip]
The script `install.sh` is idempotent and interactive: 
You can always re-run it and choose to only perform certain actions.
Useful when you want to resume a failed attempt or update.
:::

## NixOS (community)
- Currently, these dotfiles are not (yet?) offered as a flake.
- See the relevant [discussion #1093](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1093)


## OpenSUSE (community)
- See [discussion #485](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/485)

## Fedora (community)
- See [EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland](https://github.com/EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland)
- See also (older discussion): [discussion #840](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/840)
  
## Manual installation (basically any distro)
:::note[Note for non-Arch distros]
You'll have to figure out the equivalents of packages from the value of the `depends` arrays inside those `scriptdata/arch-packages/*/PKGBUILD` later when you install the dependencies.
- To get info of a package (e.g. what executable(s) it provides), search it on [Arch Linux Packages](https://archlinux.org/packages) or the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages).
- If you've successfully finished installation on some non-Arch(-based) Linux distro, you're very welcomed to share the package list (also other steps if needed) in [Discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions), and we could automate the installation for it in the future. Thanks!
:::

- Clone and go to directory
  ```bash
  t=~/.cache/dots-hyprland   # Let's not trash your home folder
  git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland.git "$t" --filter=blob:none
  cd "$t"
  ```
- Get packages: Install all packages listed as the value of array `depends` inside those `scriptdata/arch-packages/*/PKGBUILD`. For Arch Linux, just use an AUR helper such as `yay`.

- Run `manual-install-helper.sh` to install the rest of the dependencies.
  - You may also instead install suitable alternatives as you've found out.
- Add user to `video` and `input` group
  ```bash
  sudo usermod -aG video,input "$(whoami)" # if this somehow doesn't work, just replace "$(whoami)" with your username
  ```
- Copy `.config`, `.local` to your home folder (review before doing this or you might have your own config files undesirably overwritten)

- Once you're done, log in again into Hyprland
  - `Ctrl`+`Super`+`T` to select a wallpaper
  - `Super`+`/` for a list of keybinds. Have fun!

# Post installation
## Not so optional stuff

### Prevent notification daemon conflicts
- Notification daemons like `dunst` and `mako` may come with your distro's customizations and can interfere with Quickshell's implementation. It is recommended to uninstall them if you don't use them anywhere else.

## Optional stuff

### Extra configs

See if you're interested in anything in the `Extras` folder.

### Media integration with browser

If you want media thumbnail from your browser to be shown, get the "Plasma browser integration" extension.
- For [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)
- For [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)

### Colorscheme for ZSH
Put this line into your `~/.zshrc` to support colorscheme for ZSH:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/dots-hyprland.zsh
```

## Launching Hyprland
- To launch Hyprland, you can use a DM (Display Manager) or just `tty`.
- Hyprland wiki recommends launching Hyprland with the uswm-managed session, but we don't. Using this does not break the dotfiles, but you might get autostarted junk from other desktop environments (for example duplicate authentication dialogs)

See [Hyprland wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Getting-Started/Master-Tutorial/#launching-hyprland) for details. Below are some extra hints.

### How to auto-launch Hyprland after logging in on `tty1`?
For ZSH or BASH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bashrc`:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/auto-Hypr.sh
```

For FISH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:
```fish
source ~/.config/fish/auto-Hypr.fish
```

P.S. It's recommended to disable the DM if you want to launch Hyprland through tty.

### I'm a newbie. What is a tty and DM?

Here's a brief introduction to give you a quick access, though not exactly true.

You may see `tty` as some "basis" of a Linux system.
There're normally 7 `tty`s: `tty1` to `tty7`. You may press `Ctrl+Alt+F<n>` to switch to `tty<n>`, and type your username and password to log in.

After logging in, you're able to launch a graphical environment through command, e.g. `Hyprland`.
Actually, most graphical interfaces could be launched only **after** you login.

But what if we want a graphical interface for the login interface itself?

So, here comes the DM (Display Manager, also called "LM", i.e. Login Manager).
- Some commonly used DM:
  - `sddm`: Often used with KDE Plasma.
  - `gdm`: Often used with Gnome.
- It's enabled on system level, and launches automatically after system booting (not logging in yet).
  - On a systemd-based distro, the DM is usually enabled as a systemd service. Run the following to see which DM is enabled.
    ```bash
    grep 'ExecStart=' /etc/systemd/system/display-manager.service
    ```
    If it returns "No such file or directory", then no DM is enabled, or this is not a systemd-based distro.
- It provides you with a graphical interface to login and choose the graphical environment (e.g. Hyprland).
  - How does the DM know which graphical environments are available?
    - Normally, it searches the path `/usr/share/xsessions` for X11 ones, and `/usr/share/wayland-sessions` for Wayland ones.
    - The desktop files under these directories contain the information of the graphical environments.

# Updating
## If you used the script
- `cd` into the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Run `./install.sh` again
  - Skip the steps you don't want (especially the `rsync ...` ones because it will **override your files under its target path**).
    Typically you may want the `rsync` step which involves `.config/quickshell`.

Run `./install.sh -h` to see more usage.
## If you installed manually
- `cd` to the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Grab files you want. Typically you may want to grab the `.config/quickshell` folder.
- Run `manual-install-helper.sh` to update some of the dependencies.

# Uninstalling

:::note[Current state]
Since we're now using local PKGBUILDs for Arch(-based) distros, 
the `uninstall.sh` is capable of a suitable uninstallation for Arch/AUR packages, 
but deleting configuration files is still not perfect.

See also https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/838#issuecomment-2406220007
:::

- You can try using `uninstall.sh`, but it's not perfect and not actively maintained.
- Manual uninstallation hint for Arch Linux:
  - Run `pacman -Q | grep illogical-impulse` for a list of packages the dotfiles requires
  - Run `yay -Rs PACKAGE_NAME` for each package from the above command
- Here goes a long explanation if you care:

> The point is that this repo is not a typical "software", but a set of config,
> so it's very hard to make a proper uninstallation script,
> which should revert all changes made by the installation script.
> 
> For example, the installation script will install `yay` (AUR-helper) for you if you don't have one.
> However, what should the uninstallation script do to revert this changes?
> - Remove `yay` or `yay-bin`? Not proper, because you may already have one of them installed by yourself (not by the installation script).
> - Even if the installation script had logged the package list installed by the script, it's still not proper to remove `yay` or `yay-bin` when the log showed `yay` or `yay-bin` is installed by the script, because the script can't log its future, and you may have reinstalled `yay` or `yay-bin` another day after the installation script finished, thus they are actually not installed by installation script anymore.
> 
> In conclusion, it's nearly not possible to write a proper uninstallation script.
> You'd better make reverted changes manually as you need.

Commit message:

setup: add ags migration instructions

src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/01.setup.md, after:

---
title: Install / Update / Uninstall
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-03-31
---

# Installing
## Before we start

- **Only user-level customization** is provided. You are responsible for other software/configuration for basic functionality of your system.
- **Distro support**
  - The provided installation script works for Arch Linux distros
  - For other distros, see below (Note: at the time of writing they're instructions for the AGS version, not Quickshell version, but they might be helpful)
  - end-4 uses and recommends EndeavourOS. You don't have to, but it makes things much easier compared to normal Arch
- **It is not necessary to reinstall your system**

## Migration from AGS version

*Skip this if you aren't using the old AGS version or figure out yourself if not using Arch*

The Quickshell version should work just fine when you install it, but you can uninstall the old packages before installing the new ones:

```sh
pacman -Q | grep ^illogical-impulse- | awk '{print $1}' | xargs sudo pacman -Rsn --
```

then perform installation

## Automated installation (Arch distros only)

**The recommended method**

Run this one line and follow the prompts:
```bash
bash <(curl -s "https://end-4.github.io/dots-hyprland-wiki/setup.sh")
```
The above clones the repo to `~/.cache/dots-hyprland`. To make that somewhere else, specify a path as another argument

:::note[Alternative method]
If you want to type a shorter link
```bash
cd ~/Downloads # whereever you want
git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland
cd dots-hyprland
./install.sh
```
:::

:::tip[Tip]
The script `install.sh` is idempotent and interactive: 
You can always re-run it and choose to only perform certain actions.
Useful when you want to resume a failed attempt or update.
:::

## NixOS (community)
- Currently, these dotfiles are not (yet?) offered as a flake.
- See the relevant [discussion #1093](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1093)


## OpenSUSE (community)
- See [discussion #485](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/485)

## Fedora (community)
- See [EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland](https://github.com/EisregenHaha/fedora-hyprland)
- See also (older discussion): [discussion #840](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/840)
  
## Manual installation (basically any distro)
:::note[Note for non-Arch distros]
You'll have to figure out the equivalents of packages from the value of the `depends` arrays inside those `scriptdata/arch-packages/*/PKGBUILD` later when you install the dependencies.
- To get info of a package (e.g. what executable(s) it provides), search it on [Arch Linux Packages](https://archlinux.org/packages) or the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages).
- If you've successfully finished installation on some non-Arch(-based) Linux distro, you're very welcomed to share the package list (also other steps if needed) in [Discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions), and we could automate the installation for it in the future. Thanks!
:::

- Clone and go to directory
  ```bash
  t=~/.cache/dots-hyprland   # Let's not trash your home folder
  git clone https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland.git "$t" --filter=blob:none
  cd "$t"
  ```
- Get packages: Install all packages listed as the value of array `depends` inside those `scriptdata/arch-packages/*/PKGBUILD`. For Arch Linux, just use an AUR helper such as `yay`.

- Run `manual-install-helper.sh` to install the rest of the dependencies.
  - You may also instead install suitable alternatives as you've found out.
- Add user to `video` and `input` group
  ```bash
  sudo usermod -aG video,input "$(whoami)" # if this somehow doesn't work, just replace "$(whoami)" with your username
  ```
- Copy `.config`, `.local` to your home folder (review before doing this or you might have your own config files undesirably overwritten)

- Once you're done, log in again into Hyprland
  - `Ctrl`+`Super`+`T` to select a wallpaper
  - `Super`+`/` for a list of keybinds. Have fun!

# Post installation
## Not so optional stuff

### Prevent notification daemon conflicts
- Notification daemons like `dunst` and `mako` may come with your distro's customizations and can interfere with Quickshell's implementation. It is recommended to uninstall them if you don't use them anywhere else.

## Optional stuff

### Extra configs

See if you're interested in anything in the `Extras` folder.

### Media integration with browser

If you want media thumbnail from your browser to be shown, get the "Plasma browser integration" extension.
- For [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)
- For [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)

### Colorscheme for ZSH
Put this line into your `~/.zshrc` to support colorscheme for ZSH:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/dots-hyprland.zsh
```

## Launching Hyprland
- To launch Hyprland, you can use a DM (Display Manager) or just `tty`.
- Hyprland wiki recommends launching Hyprland with the uswm-managed session, but we don't. Using this does not break the dotfiles, but you might get autostarted junk from other desktop environments (for example duplicate authentication dialogs)

See [Hyprland wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Getting-Started/Master-Tutorial/#launching-hyprland) for details. Below are some extra hints.

### How to auto-launch Hyprland after logging in on `tty1`?
For ZSH or BASH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bashrc`:
```bash
source ~/.config/zshrc.d/auto-Hypr.sh
```

For FISH, add this line to the **bottom** of your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:
```fish
source ~/.config/fish/auto-Hypr.fish
```

P.S. It's recommended to disable the DM if you want to launch Hyprland through tty.

### I'm a newbie. What is a tty and DM?

Here's a brief introduction to give you a quick access, though not exactly true.

You may see `tty` as some "basis" of a Linux system.
There're normally 7 `tty`s: `tty1` to `tty7`. You may press `Ctrl+Alt+F<n>` to switch to `tty<n>`, and type your username and password to log in.

After logging in, you're able to launch a graphical environment through command, e.g. `Hyprland`.
Actually, most graphical interfaces could be launched only **after** you login.

But what if we want a graphical interface for the login interface itself?

So, here comes the DM (Display Manager, also called "LM", i.e. Login Manager).
- Some commonly used DM:
  - `sddm`: Often used with KDE Plasma.
  - `gdm`: Often used with Gnome.
- It's enabled on system level, and launches automatically after system booting (not logging in yet).
  - On a systemd-based distro, the DM is usually enabled as a systemd service. Run the following to see which DM is enabled.
    ```bash
    grep 'ExecStart=' /etc/systemd/system/display-manager.service
    ```
    If it returns "No such file or directory", then no DM is enabled, or this is not a systemd-based distro.
- It provides you with a graphical interface to login and choose the graphical environment (e.g. Hyprland).
  - How does the DM know which graphical environments are available?
    - Normally, it searches the path `/usr/share/xsessions` for X11 ones, and `/usr/share/wayland-sessions` for Wayland ones.
    - The desktop files under these directories contain the information of the graphical environments.

# Updating
## If you used the script
- `cd` into the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Run `./install.sh` again
  - Skip the steps you don't want (especially the `rsync ...` ones because it will **override your files under its target path**).
    Typically you may want the `rsync` step which involves `.config/quickshell`.

Run `./install.sh -h` to see more usage.
## If you installed manually
- `cd` to the repo directory
- Run `git pull` to fetch the latest changes.
- Grab files you want. Typically you may want to grab the `.config/quickshell` folder.
- Run `manual-install-helper.sh` to update some of the dependencies.

# Uninstalling

:::note[Current state]
Since we're now using local PKGBUILDs for Arch(-based) distros, 
the `uninstall.sh` is capable of a suitable uninstallation for Arch/AUR packages, 
but deleting configuration files is still not perfect.

See also https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/838#issuecomment-2406220007
:::

- You can try using `uninstall.sh`, but it's not perfect and not actively maintained.
- Manual uninstallation hint for Arch Linux:
  - Run `pacman -Q | grep illogical-impulse` for a list of packages the dotfiles requires
  - Run `yay -Rs PACKAGE_NAME` for each package from the above command
- Here goes a long explanation if you care:

> The point is that this repo is not a typical "software", but a set of config,
> so it's very hard to make a proper uninstallation script,
> which should revert all changes made by the installation script.
> 
> For example, the installation script will install `yay` (AUR-helper) for you if you don't have one.
> However, what should the uninstallation script do to revert this changes?
> - Remove `yay` or `yay-bin`? Not proper, because you may already have one of them installed by yourself (not by the installation script).
> - Even if the installation script had logged the package list installed by the script, it's still not proper to remove `yay` or `yay-bin` when the log showed `yay` or `yay-bin` is installed by the script, because the script can't log its future, and you may have reinstalled `yay` or `yay-bin` another day after the installation script finished, thus they are actually not installed by installation script anymore.
> 
> In conclusion, it's nearly not possible to write a proper uninstallation script.
> You'd better make reverted changes manually as you need.
