src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/03.config.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-04-03
---

# Configuring Hyprland

Hyprland is responsible for...
- keybinds
- environment variables
- display/monitors/workspaces
- window animations
- ...

Refer to the [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/) for general configuration instructions. Only details specific to the dotfiles are documented below.

- `~/.config/hypr/` is Hyprland's config folder
  - The `hyprland` subfolder contains the default configs
  - The `custom` subfolder is for your extra configs

You can make changes in the former subfolder, but they will be overwritten if you decide to update the dotfiles.

:::note
To override the default configs, you may need to use some techniques, such as `unbind` for keybinds.

And if you're not able to override something, you can copy the default config file from `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/` to `~/.config/hypr/custom/`, and edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to comment out the line which source the default config file.

But if you find something wrong with Hyprland after updating using `./setup install`, you need to re-check `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to see if the commented-out default config file contains some neccessary changes.
:::

# Configuring Quickshell

Quickshell is responsible for shell elements such as the bar and sidebars

## Simple configuration

### Graphical

Hit `Super`+`I` or press the gear button on the right sidebar to open settings. Most common settings are there. If you can't find what you want, you can try the below

### Editing the config file

The config file is `~/.config/illogical-impulse/config.json`

For explanation of the options and defaults, see `~/.config/quickshell/ii/modules/common/Config.qml`

:::note
For configs that are not limited to Quickshell, see the "Misc" section.
:::
### Date and time format

You can change the time format between 24h and 12h in the Settings > Services > Time.

Alternatively, in the config file, edit `time.format`. See https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qtime.html#toString for the format.

## Advanced configuration

- Edit files in `~/.config/quickshell/ii`
- See [Quickshell Docs](https://quickshell.outfoxxed.me/docs/types/)
  - It is recommended that you at least go through the Introduction, Positioning, and QML Language pages

# Misc

## Change UI scale

To change the scale of the shell, open `~/.config/quickshell/ii/shell.qml` and adjust this line
```qml
//@ pragma Env QT_SCALE_FACTOR=1
```

To change the scale of everything on your screen, see [Monitors - Hyprland wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Monitors/)

## Change font size

### GTK Apps

- Use `gnome-tweaks` if you want a graphical UI with a font picker
- Otherwise, you can use `gsettings`
```bash
# Syntax
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'FONT_NAME FONT_SIZE'
# Default of these dotfiles
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'Rubik 11'
```

### Qt Apps
You can use the KDE System Settings app to customize fonts

## Screen lock/timeout

### Timeout

Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/)

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` to your needs.

### Use another lock screen program
Reference: [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Session_lock)

Take `swaylock` as example.

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` and modify the value of `$lock_cmd` as follows:
```ini
$lock_cmd = swaylock
```

Restart `hypridle` after you make changes (`pkill hypridle; hypridle & disown`).

Now `loginctl lock-session` will call `swaylock` to lock the screen.

:::note[How it works]
The command `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to the running `hypridle` process, and then `hypridle` will trigger the command from the value of `$lock_cmd`.
:::

## Cloudflare WARP
- This might help you bypass your ISP's restrictions and provide a faster internet
- There will be a button on the right sidebar to toggle WARP if it's installed
- To install it, follow this guide: https://pranavk-official.gitlab.io/posts/post-2/

Commit message:

add note about vscode theming (end-4/dots-hyprland#2146)

src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/03.config.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-04-03
---

# Configuring Hyprland

Hyprland is responsible for...
- keybinds
- environment variables
- display/monitors/workspaces
- window animations
- ...

Refer to the [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/) for general configuration instructions. Only details specific to the dotfiles are documented below.

- `~/.config/hypr/` is Hyprland's config folder
  - The `hyprland` subfolder contains the default configs
  - The `custom` subfolder is for your extra configs

You can make changes in the former subfolder, but they will be overwritten if you decide to update the dotfiles.

:::note
To override the default configs, you may need to use some techniques, such as `unbind` for keybinds.

And if you're not able to override something, you can copy the default config file from `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/` to `~/.config/hypr/custom/`, and edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to comment out the line which source the default config file.

But if you find something wrong with Hyprland after updating using `./setup install`, you need to re-check `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to see if the commented-out default config file contains some neccessary changes.
:::

# Configuring Quickshell

Quickshell is responsible for shell elements such as the bar and sidebars

## Simple configuration

### Graphical

Hit `Super`+`I` or press the gear button on the right sidebar to open settings. Most common settings are there. If you can't find what you want, you can try the below

### Editing the config file

The config file is `~/.config/illogical-impulse/config.json`

For explanation of the options and defaults, see `~/.config/quickshell/ii/modules/common/Config.qml`

:::note
For configs that are not limited to Quickshell, see the "Misc" section.
:::
### Date and time format

You can change the time format between 24h and 12h in the Settings > Services > Time.

Alternatively, in the config file, edit `time.format`. See https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qtime.html#toString for the format.

## Advanced configuration

- Edit files in `~/.config/quickshell/ii`
- See [Quickshell Docs](https://quickshell.outfoxxed.me/docs/types/)
  - It is recommended that you at least go through the Introduction, Positioning, and QML Language pages

# Misc

## Color theming

### Vscode

- Install the [Material Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rakib13332.material-code) extension, then select a wallpaper.
- Optional tweaks
  - You can change the "material-code.syntaxTheme" option, which has a really weird default.
  - Run "Material Code: Apply styles" to inject yummy rounded corners. If vscode says the installation is corrupt, you can safely select "Don't show again".

This works with Microsoft's proprietary build. If you use some schizo version we don't guarantee it will work. Well, actually it's just about differing file paths, so feel free to PR that for the vscode fork you use. The script that handles the color is in `dots/.config/quickshell/ii/scripts/colors/code/material-code-set-color.sh`

## Change UI scale

To change the scale of the shell, open `~/.config/quickshell/ii/shell.qml` and adjust this line
```qml
//@ pragma Env QT_SCALE_FACTOR=1
```

To change the scale of everything on your screen, see [Monitors - Hyprland wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Monitors/)

## Change font size

### GTK Apps

- Use `gnome-tweaks` if you want a graphical UI with a font picker
- Otherwise, you can use `gsettings`
```bash
# Syntax
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'FONT_NAME FONT_SIZE'
# Default of these dotfiles
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'Rubik 11'
```

### Qt Apps
You can use the KDE System Settings app to customize fonts

## Screen lock/timeout

### Timeout

Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/)

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` to your needs.

### Use another lock screen program
Reference: [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Session_lock)

Take `swaylock` as example.

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` and modify the value of `$lock_cmd` as follows:
```ini
$lock_cmd = swaylock
```

Restart `hypridle` after you make changes (`pkill hypridle; hypridle & disown`).

Now `loginctl lock-session` will call `swaylock` to lock the screen.

:::note[How it works]
The command `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to the running `hypridle` process, and then `hypridle` will trigger the command from the value of `$lock_cmd`.
:::

## Cloudflare WARP
- This might help you bypass your ISP's restrictions and provide a faster internet
- There will be a button on the right sidebar to toggle WARP if it's installed
- To install it, follow this guide: https://pranavk-official.gitlab.io/posts/post-2/
