---
title: Configuration
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-04-03
---

# Configuring Hyprland

Hyprland is responsible for...
- keybinds
- environment variables
- display/monitors/workspaces
- window animations
- ...

Refer to the [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/) for general configuration instructions. Only details specific to the dotfiles are documented below.

- `~/.config/hypr/` is Hyprland's config folder
  - The `hyprland` subfolder contains the default configs
  - The `custom` subfolder is for your extra configs

You can make changes in the former subfolder, but they will be overwritten if you decide to update the dotfiles.

:::note
To override the default configs, you may need to use some techniques, such as `unbind` for keybinds.

And if you're not able to override something, you can copy the default config file from `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/` to `~/.config/hypr/custom/`, and edit `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to comment out the line which source the default config file.

But if you find something wrong with Hyprland after updating using `install.sh`, you need to re-check `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` to see if the commented-out default config file contains some neccessary changes.
:::

# Configuring Quickshell

Quickshell is responsible for shell elements such as the bar and sidebars

## Simple configuration

### Graphical

Hit `Super`+`I` or press the gear button on the right sidebar to open settings. Most common settings are there. If you can't find what you want, you can try the below

### Editing the config file

The config file is `~/.config/illogical-impulse/config.json`

For explanation of the options and defaults, see `~/.config/quickshell/modules/common/Config.qml`

:::note
For configs that are not limited to Quickshell, see the "Misc" section.
:::
### Date and time format

You can change the time format between 24h and 12h in the Settings > Services > Time.

Alternatively, in the config file, edit `time.format`. See https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qtime.html#toString for the format.

## Advanced configuration

- Edit files in `~/.config/quickshell`
- See [Quickshell Docs](https://quickshell.outfoxxed.me/docs/types/)
  - It is recommended that you at least go through the Introduction, Positioning, and QML Language pages

# Misc

## Change UI scale

To change the scale of the shell, open `~/.config/quickshell/shell.qml` and adjust this line
```qml
//@ pragma Env QT_SCALE_FACTOR=1
```

To change the scale of everything on your screen, see [Monitors - Hyprland wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Monitors/)

## Change font size

### GTK Apps

- Use `gnome-tweaks` if you want a graphical UI with a font picker
- Otherwise, you can use `gsettings`
```bash
# Syntax
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'FONsT_NAME FONT_SIZE'
# Default of these dotfiles
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface font-name 'Rubik 11'
```

### Qt Apps
You can use the KDE System Settings app to customize fonts

## Screen lock/timeout

### Timeout

Reference: [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hyprland.org/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/)

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` to your needs.

### Use another lock screen program
Reference: [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Session_lock)

Take `swaylock` as example.

Edit `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf` and modify the value of `$lock_cmd` as follows:
```conf
$lock_cmd = swaylock
```

Restart `hypridle` after you make changes (`pkill hypridle; hypridle & disown`).

Now `loginctl lock-session` will call `swaylock` to lock the screen.

:::note[How it works]
The command `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to the running `hypridle` process, and then `hypridle` will trigger the command from the value of `$lock_cmd`.
:::

## Cloudflare WARP
- This might help you bypass your ISP's restrictions and provide a faster internet
- There will be a button on the right sidebar to toggle WARP if it's installed
- To install Cloudflare WARP, run `yay -S cloudflare-warp-bin && sudo systemctl enable warp-svc --now`


