src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/04.troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting/FAQ
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-10-19
---

:::tip[Tip]
On this page, press `Ctrl`+`F` to search or see the right sidebar to find your problem
:::

# General troubleshooting
## Python virtual environment

The environment variable `$ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV` must be set properly, or some features of the Quickshell config will not work. In the provided default config, `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/env.conf`, which is sourced by `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, already contains this environment variable. 

If somehow it isn't there, add the following to your Hyprland config and restart it
```ini
env = ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV, ~/.local/state/quickshell/.venv
```

You can run `./diagnose` to recheck the value.

Expected example:
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="/home/user/.local/state/quickshell/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
Where `user` is your username.

## Things to try at least once
- Restart Hyprland, or reboot your system, which is necessary for applying environment variable changes.
- Running `./setup install` again to ensure everything is installed properly. As the script is idempotent, you can run it as much as you like to check stuff or update the dotfiles.

## How to get logs
- If there's a problem with something, open a terminal (`Super`+`Enter`) and run it. Look for errors/warnings that could be problematic.
- The bar and other shell elements are powered by Quickshell (ITS NOT WAYBAR 😭). If there's something wrong with them, run the following in a terminal: `pkill qs; qs -c ii`.

## Help

1. Search this page, then [issues](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues) and [discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions).
2. If you can't find anything, open a new discussion. 

While [@end-4](https://github.com/end-4) is most active on Discord (@end_4), GitHub is preferred as [@clsty](https://github.com/clsty) has a better understanding of the install scripts and Arch Linux-related problems.

# Common issues
## Themes don't look right

Switch a wallpaper by pressing `Super+Ctrl+T` and choosing a picture in prompted window. If it doesn't work, run `~/.config/quickshell/ii/scripts/switchwall.sh` in a terminal, follow the same procedure, see the logs and figure out the problem yourself or send it in an issue/discussion 

## Icon of some application missing in dock/overview

It's technically not possible to have perfect icons. The icons are guessed from each app's class, which is not necessarily the name of its icon.

Possible solutions:
### GTK apps: Use `gsettings` to set icon theme

Maybe your app's icon isn't available in the default icon pack. In that case you can change it to another.

For example you can use [Papirus](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme). 
It is not used by default because of @end-4's preference, but it has very good coverage of apps.

```sh
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface icon-theme Papirus
```

Of course you must install it first, for Arch Linux use `sudo pacman -S papirus-icon-theme`.

### Qt apps: Edit kde-material-you-colors config

Open `~/.config/kde-material-you-colors/config.conf`
Find these lines and edit to your liking
```ini
# ...
iconslight = breeze-plus
# ...
iconsdark = breeze-plus-dark
```

## Music controls don't show up

> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#168](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/168) (Note: Old issue for AGS version)

- Make sure your player has Mpris support (here's a list: [MPRIS - Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/MPRIS))
- If it's a browser, install the Plasma Integration extension: 
  - [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)
  - [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)

Make sure `plasma-browser-integration` package (for Arch, figure out the corresponding package yourself if not on Arch) is installed

Then, when firefox is playing media, the following command
```bash
dbus-send --print-reply --dest=org.freedesktop.DBus /org/freedesktop/DBus org.freedesktop.DBus.ListNames|grep mpris
```
the output should include
```plain
string "org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration"
```
Only "plasma-browser-integration" names will work. others won't.

If for some reason, firefox still does not have dbus `org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration` showing up,
consider the following steps:
1. Create a new profile using `firefox --ProfileManager`.
2. Launch firefox with the newprofile and install the Plasma Integration extension again.
3. Restart firefox with the new profile and try again.
- _Note: `playerctl -F metadata` may also be helpful for debugging._

## Weird icon names instead of icons show up
- Make sure the Material Symbols font (not Material Icons) is installed. 
  - On Arch, use the `ttf-material-symbols-variable-git` package
  - If your distro does not have a package for it, install manually:
    - Download the .ttf files from [Material Symbols' repo](https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/tree/master/variablefont)
    - Put them in `~/.local/share/fonts`
    - Refresh font cache with `fc-cache -fv`
    - Restart the shell with `Ctrl`+`Super`+`R`

## `loginctl lock-session` does nothing
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#278](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/278)

According to [this post on Arch Linux Forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1311990#p1311990):
> Something needs to listen to systemd-logind's dbus signals for this to work.

Hypridle is capable to be this "thing", which means you should ensure that it is running,
and then `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to hypridle,
as a result hypridle will lock the screen by executing the `$lock_cmd` defined in its config `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf`.

See [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/#configuration) for more.

## Screen brightness flickers

See [This Hyprland Wiki FAQ entry](https://wiki.hypr.land/FAQ/#my-monitor-has-flickering-brightness-when-i-turn-on-vrr)

# Configuration-related questions

## How do I prevent Telegram or other messaging apps from stealing focus on new message?
- Set Hyprland's `misc:focus_on_activate` variable to `false`

## How to disable anime shit?
- Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, select "No" for "Weeb" policy

## How to disable AI or restrict it to local models?

Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, and change the "AI" policy in the "General" section of the settings app

## How to remove the fake rounding of the screen?

There's an option in the settings app, explore it

## Terminal colors aren't very readable

In the settings app go to "Advanced" section. Decrease Terminal Harmony value

## Is there a quick Proxy/VPN setting? I'm in Russia and my ISP doesn't want me to watch hentai

For content restriction bypassing, the shell offers a quick toggle for Cloudflare Warp if you have it installed. You can see the relevant section on the Configuration page.

## How to enable transparency?

See [#1991](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1991)

# Hacking

## I want to [do this very specific thing]

Try https://deepwiki.com/end-4/dots-hyprland

# Designation related
## Why not upload PKGBUILDs to AUR
### Short answer
Because they are designed to be **local** PKGBUILDs shipped within the Git repo.

### Why local? 

**1.** cuz it's convenient to custom and modify, thus suits the need for the dotfiles as dynamic as possible.

Consider someone who forks the repo and modifies something in these PKGBUILDs. It just works.
However if the PKGBUILDs are on AUR then this user will have to download PKGBUILDs and upload them to AUR with a new name... What if many users are doing this altogether? That's just unacceptable. Even if this user choose to build the PKGBUILDs manually it's still inconvenient.

**2.** These local PKGBUILDs are actually only for illogical-impulse and does not add new actual "packages". It's unsuitable to upload them to AUR which is a public place for holding packages for everyone.

**3.** The dependencies are deeply related to dotfiles. If you only upgrade the dependencies but not dotfiles, then things are more likely to not work as expected.

### Why are there already some illogical-impulse packages on AUR?

None of them has been uploaded officially. We have no control over them.

### How to get rid of ":: Packages not in AUR: illogical-impulse-xxx" when upgrading system?

Sorry for the annoyance but it seems impossible to get rid of such info with reliable and convenient method currently.
Please just ignore them as it actually does no harm anyway.

Commit message:

add borked wifi toggle troubleshooting (end-4/dots-hyprland#2159)

src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/04.troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting/FAQ
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-10-19
---

:::tip[Tip]
On this page, press `Ctrl`+`F` to search or see the right sidebar to find your problem
:::

# General troubleshooting
## Python virtual environment

The environment variable `$ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV` must be set properly, or some features of the Quickshell config will not work. In the provided default config, `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/env.conf`, which is sourced by `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, already contains this environment variable. 

If somehow it isn't there, add the following to your Hyprland config and restart it
```ini
env = ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV, ~/.local/state/quickshell/.venv
```

You can run `./diagnose` to recheck the value.

Expected example:
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="/home/user/.local/state/quickshell/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
Where `user` is your username.

## Things to try at least once
- Restart Hyprland, or reboot your system, which is necessary for applying environment variable changes.
- Running `./setup install` again to ensure everything is installed properly. As the script is idempotent, you can run it as much as you like to check stuff or update the dotfiles.

## How to get logs
- If there's a problem with something, open a terminal (`Super`+`Enter`) and run it. Look for errors/warnings that could be problematic.
- The bar and other shell elements are powered by Quickshell (ITS NOT WAYBAR 😭). If there's something wrong with them, run the following in a terminal: `pkill qs; qs -c ii`.

## Help

1. Search this page, then [issues](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues) and [discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions).
2. If you can't find anything, open a new discussion. 

While [@end-4](https://github.com/end-4) is most active on Discord (@end_4), GitHub is preferred as [@clsty](https://github.com/clsty) has a better understanding of the install scripts and Arch Linux-related problems.

# Common issues
## Themes don't look right

Switch a wallpaper by pressing `Super+Ctrl+T` and choosing a picture in prompted window. If it doesn't work, run `~/.config/quickshell/ii/scripts/switchwall.sh` in a terminal, follow the same procedure, see the logs and figure out the problem yourself or send it in an issue/discussion 

## Icon of some application missing in dock/overview

It's technically not possible to have perfect icons. The icons are guessed from each app's class, which is not necessarily the name of its icon.

Possible solutions:
### GTK apps: Use `gsettings` to set icon theme

Maybe your app's icon isn't available in the default icon pack. In that case you can change it to another.

For example you can use [Papirus](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme). 
It is not used by default because of @end-4's preference, but it has very good coverage of apps.

```sh
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface icon-theme Papirus
```

Of course you must install it first, for Arch Linux use `sudo pacman -S papirus-icon-theme`.

### Qt apps: Edit kde-material-you-colors config

Open `~/.config/kde-material-you-colors/config.conf`
Find these lines and edit to your liking
```ini
# ...
iconslight = breeze-plus
# ...
iconsdark = breeze-plus-dark
```

## Music controls don't show up

> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#168](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/168) (Note: Old issue for AGS version)

- Make sure your player has Mpris support (here's a list: [MPRIS - Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/MPRIS))
- If it's a browser, install the Plasma Integration extension: 
  - [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)
  - [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)

Make sure `plasma-browser-integration` package (for Arch, figure out the corresponding package yourself if not on Arch) is installed

Then, when firefox is playing media, the following command
```bash
dbus-send --print-reply --dest=org.freedesktop.DBus /org/freedesktop/DBus org.freedesktop.DBus.ListNames|grep mpris
```
the output should include
```plain
string "org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration"
```
Only "plasma-browser-integration" names will work. others won't.

If for some reason, firefox still does not have dbus `org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration` showing up,
consider the following steps:
1. Create a new profile using `firefox --ProfileManager`.
2. Launch firefox with the newprofile and install the Plasma Integration extension again.
3. Restart firefox with the new profile and try again.
- _Note: `playerctl -F metadata` may also be helpful for debugging._

## Weird icon names instead of icons show up
- Make sure the Material Symbols font (not Material Icons) is installed. 
  - On Arch, use the `ttf-material-symbols-variable-git` package
  - If your distro does not have a package for it, install manually:
    - Download the .ttf files from [Material Symbols' repo](https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/tree/master/variablefont)
    - Put them in `~/.local/share/fonts`
    - Refresh font cache with `fc-cache -fv`
    - Restart the shell with `Ctrl`+`Super`+`R`

## `loginctl lock-session` does nothing
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#278](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/278)

According to [this post on Arch Linux Forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1311990#p1311990):
> Something needs to listen to systemd-logind's dbus signals for this to work.

Hypridle is capable to be this "thing", which means you should ensure that it is running,
and then `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to hypridle,
as a result hypridle will lock the screen by executing the `$lock_cmd` defined in its config `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf`.

See [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/#configuration) for more.

## Screen brightness flickers

See [This Hyprland Wiki FAQ entry](https://wiki.hypr.land/FAQ/#my-monitor-has-flickering-brightness-when-i-turn-on-vrr)

## Sidebar Wi-Fi toggle doesn't work
- Make sure you have `NetworkManager` installed and running 
  ```bash
  sudo pacman -Q NetworkManager
  sudo pacman -S NetworkManager  # if not installed
  sudo systemctl status NetworkManager

  # if not running, enable and start it
  sudo systemctl enable NetworkManager
  sudo systemctl start NetworkManager
  ```
  Restart quickshell to apply the changes

- If for whatever reason you ended up using another network manager (like `iwd`) to configure the Wi-Fi (because sidebar toggle doesn't work), you can configure `NetworkManager` to use `iwd` as a backend so that it doesn't confuse itself (you can't have 2 services control the Wi-Fi at the same time).
  - Create backend config file for `NetworkManager`:
    ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/wifi_backend.conf
    ```
  - Put this inside it:
    ```ini
    [device]
    wifi.backend=iwd
    ```
  - Save the file and restart quickshell to apply the changes.

# Configuration-related questions

## How do I prevent Telegram or other messaging apps from stealing focus on new message?
- Set Hyprland's `misc:focus_on_activate` variable to `false`

## How to disable anime shit?
- Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, select "No" for "Weeb" policy

## How to disable AI or restrict it to local models?

Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, and change the "AI" policy in the "General" section of the settings app

## How to remove the fake rounding of the screen?

There's an option in the settings app, explore it

## Terminal colors aren't very readable

In the settings app go to "Advanced" section. Decrease Terminal Harmony value

## Is there a quick Proxy/VPN setting? I'm in Russia and my ISP doesn't want me to watch hentai

For content restriction bypassing, the shell offers a quick toggle for Cloudflare Warp if you have it installed. You can see the relevant section on the Configuration page.

## How to enable transparency?

See [#1991](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1991)

# Hacking

## I want to [do this very specific thing]

Try https://deepwiki.com/end-4/dots-hyprland

# Designation related
## Why not upload PKGBUILDs to AUR
### Short answer
Because they are designed to be **local** PKGBUILDs shipped within the Git repo.

### Why local? 

**1.** cuz it's convenient to custom and modify, thus suits the need for the dotfiles as dynamic as possible.

Consider someone who forks the repo and modifies something in these PKGBUILDs. It just works.
However if the PKGBUILDs are on AUR then this user will have to download PKGBUILDs and upload them to AUR with a new name... What if many users are doing this altogether? That's just unacceptable. Even if this user choose to build the PKGBUILDs manually it's still inconvenient.

**2.** These local PKGBUILDs are actually only for illogical-impulse and does not add new actual "packages". It's unsuitable to upload them to AUR which is a public place for holding packages for everyone.

**3.** The dependencies are deeply related to dotfiles. If you only upgrade the dependencies but not dotfiles, then things are more likely to not work as expected.

### Why are there already some illogical-impulse packages on AUR?

None of them has been uploaded officially. We have no control over them.

### How to get rid of ":: Packages not in AUR: illogical-impulse-xxx" when upgrading system?

Sorry for the annoyance but it seems impossible to get rid of such info with reliable and convenient method currently.
Please just ignore them as it actually does no harm anyway.
