src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/04.troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting/FAQ
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-05-18
---

:::tip[Tip]
On this page, press `Ctrl`+`F` to search or see the right sidebar to find your problem
:::

# General troubleshooting
## Python virtual environment

The environment variable `$ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV` must be set properly, or some features of the Quickshell config will not work. In the provided default config, `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/env.conf`, which is sourced by `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, already contains this environment variable. 

If somehow it isn't there, add the following to your Hyprland config and restart it
```ini
env = ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV, $XDG_STATE_HOME/quickshell/.venv
```

You can run `./diagnose` to recheck the value

### Expected example
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="/home/user/.local/state/quickshell/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
Where `user` is your username.

### Unexpected example 1
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
./diagnose: line 30: declare: ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV: not found
[---EXIT 1---]
```
For the case above:
- It's very likely that you're still using old `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, and forgot to replace its content with `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf.new`. Just run `cd ~/.config/hypr;mv hyprland.conf{,.old};mv hyprland.conf{.new,}`.
- Ensure you have restarted Hyprland.

### Unexpected example 2
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="\$XDG_STATE_HOME/quickshell/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
For the case above, the `$XDG_STATE_HOME` is not expanded, which seems really weird (maybe a Hyprland bug?).
- Make sure that when you run `install.sh`, you have not skipped and have properly executed the `install-python-packages()`, which should give you a non-empty `~/.local/state/quickshell/.venv`.
- You may directly specify its value in `~/.config/hypr/custom/env.conf` as (remember to replace `user` with your username):
```ini
env = ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV, /home/user/.local/state/quickshell/.venv
```

## Things to try at least once
- Restart Hyprland, or reboot your system, which is necessary for applying environment variable changes.
- Running `install.sh` again to ensure everything is installed properly. As the script is idempotent, you can run it as much as you like to check stuff or update the dotfiles

## How to get logs
- If there's a problem with something, open a terminal (`Super`+`Enter`) and run it. Look for errors/warnings that could be problematic.
- The bar and other shell elements are powered by Quickshell (ITS NOT WAYBAR 😭). If there's something wrong with them, run the following in a terminal: `pkill qs; qs -c ii`.

## Help

1. Search this page, then [issues](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues) and [discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions).
2. If you can't find anything, open a new discussion. 

While @end-4 is most active on Discord (@end_4), GitHub is preferred as @clsty has a better understanding of the install script and Arch Linux-related problems

# Common issues
## Themes don't look right

Switch a wallpaper by pressing `Super+Ctrl+T` and choosing a picture in prompted window. If it doesn't work, run `~/.config/quickshell/scripts/switchwall.sh` in a terminal, follow the same procedure, see the logs and figure out the problem yourself or send it in an issue/discussion 

## Icon of some application missing in dock/overview

It's technically not possible to have perfect icons. The icons are guessed from each app's class, which is not necessarily the name of its icon.

Possible solutions:
### GTK apps: Use `gsettings` to set icon theme

Maybe your app's icon isn't available in the default icon pack. In that case you can change it to another.

For example you can use [Papirus](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme). 
It is not used by default because of @end-4's preference, but it has very good coverage of apps.

```sh
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface icon-theme Papirus
```

Of course you must install it first, for Arch Linux use `sudo pacman -S papirus-icon-theme`.

### Qt apps: Edit kde-material-you-colors config

Open `~/.config/kde-material-you-colors/config.conf`
Find these lines and edit to your liking
```ini
# ...
iconslight = breeze-plus
# ...
iconsdark = breeze-plus-dark
```

## Music controls don't show up

> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#168](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/168) (Note: Old issue for AGS version)

- Make sure your player has Mpris support (here's a list: [MPRIS - Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/MPRIS))
- If it's a browser, install the Plasma Integration extension: 
  - [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)
  - [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)

Make sure `plasma-browser-integration` package (for Arch, figure out the corresponding package yourself if not on Arch) is installed

Then, when firefox is playing media, the following command
```bash
dbus-send --print-reply --dest=org.freedesktop.DBus /org/freedesktop/DBus org.freedesktop.DBus.ListNames|grep mpris
```
the output should include
```plain
string "org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration"
```
Only "plasma-browser-integration" names will work. others won't.

If for some reason, firefox still does not have dbus `org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration` showing up,
consider the following steps:
1. Create a new profile using `firefox --ProfileManager`.
2. Launch firefox with the newprofile and install the Plasma Integration extension again.
3. Restart firefox with the new profile and try again.
- _Note: `playerctl -F metadata` may also be helpful for debugging._

## Weird icon names instead of icons show up
- Make sure the Material Symbols font (not Material Icons) is installed. 
  - On Arch, use the `ttf-material-symbols-variable-git` package
  - If your distro does not have a package for it, install manually:
    - Download the .ttf files from [Material Symbols' repo](https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/tree/master/variablefont)
    - Put them in `~/.local/share/fonts`
    - Refresh font cache with `fc-cache -fv`
    - Restart the shell with `Ctrl`+`Super`+`R`

## `loginctl lock-session` does nothing
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#278](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/278)

According to [this post on Arch Linux Forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1311990#p1311990):
> Something needs to listen to systemd-logind's dbus signals for this to work.

Hypridle is capable to be this "thing", which means you should ensure that it is running,
and then `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to hypridle,
as a result hypridle will lock the screen by executing the `$lock_cmd` defined in its config `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf`.

See [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/#configuration) for more.

## Screen brightness flickers

See [This Hyprland Wiki FAQ entry](https://wiki.hypr.land/FAQ/#my-monitor-has-flickering-brightness-when-i-turn-on-vrr)

# Configuration-related questions

## How do I prevent Telegram or other messaging apps from stealing focus on new message?
- Set Hyprland's `misc:focus_on_activate` variable to `false`

## How to disable anime shit?
- Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, select "No" for "Weeb" policy

## How to disable AI or restrict it to local models?

Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, and change the "AI" policy in the "General" section of the settings app

## How to remove the fake rounding of the screen?

There's an option in the settings app, explore it

## Terminal colors aren't very readable

In the settings app go to "Advanced" section. Decrease Terminal Harmony value

## Is there a quick Proxy/VPN setting? I'm in Russia and my ISP doesn't want me to watch hentai

For content restriction bypassing, the shell offers a quick toggle for Cloudflare Warp if you have it installed. You can see the relevant section on the Configuration page.

## How to enable transparency?

See [#1991](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1991)

# Hacking

## I want to [do this very specific thing]

Try https://deepwiki.com/end-4/dots-hyprland

Commit message:

Update troubleshooting instructions for Quickshell
Added a note about ensuring Quickshell is up to date and built against the correct Qt version.

src/content/docs/en/ii-qs/04.troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting/FAQ
layout: /src/layouts/autonum.astro
lastUpdated: 2025-05-18
---

:::tip[Tip]
On this page, press `Ctrl`+`F` to search or see the right sidebar to find your problem
:::

# General troubleshooting
## Python virtual environment

The environment variable `$ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV` must be set properly, or some features of the Quickshell config will not work. In the provided default config, `~/.config/hypr/hyprland/env.conf`, which is sourced by `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, already contains this environment variable. 

If somehow it isn't there, add the following to your Hyprland config and restart it
```ini
env = ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV, $XDG_STATE_HOME/quickshell/.venv
```

You can run `./diagnose` to recheck the value

### Expected example
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="/home/user/.local/state/quickshell/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
Where `user` is your username.

### Unexpected example 1
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
./diagnose: line 30: declare: ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV: not found
[---EXIT 1---]
```
For the case above:
- It's very likely that you're still using old `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`, and forgot to replace its content with `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf.new`. Just run `cd ~/.config/hypr;mv hyprland.conf{,.old};mv hyprland.conf{.new,}`.
- Ensure you have restarted Hyprland.

### Unexpected example 2
```
[===diagnose===] declare -p ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV
declare -x ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV="\$XDG_STATE_HOME/quickshell/.venv"
[---SUCCESS---]
```
For the case above, the `$XDG_STATE_HOME` is not expanded, which seems really weird (maybe a Hyprland bug?).
- Make sure that when you run `install.sh`, you have not skipped and have properly executed the `install-python-packages()`, which should give you a non-empty `~/.local/state/quickshell/.venv`.
- You may directly specify its value in `~/.config/hypr/custom/env.conf` as (remember to replace `user` with your username):
```ini
env = ILLOGICAL_IMPULSE_VIRTUAL_ENV, /home/user/.local/state/quickshell/.venv
```

## Things to try at least once
- Restart Hyprland, or reboot your system, which is necessary for applying environment variable changes.
- Running `install.sh` again to ensure everything is installed properly. As the script is idempotent, you can run it as much as you like to check stuff or update the dotfiles.
- Ensure that Quickshell is latest and built against the correct Qt version. For Arch(-based) distro run `yay -S quickshell-git --rebuild`.

## How to get logs
- If there's a problem with something, open a terminal (`Super`+`Enter`) and run it. Look for errors/warnings that could be problematic.
- The bar and other shell elements are powered by Quickshell (ITS NOT WAYBAR 😭). If there's something wrong with them, run the following in a terminal: `pkill qs; qs -c ii`.

## Help

1. Search this page, then [issues](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues) and [discussions](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions).
2. If you can't find anything, open a new discussion. 

While @end-4 is most active on Discord (@end_4), GitHub is preferred as @clsty has a better understanding of the install script and Arch Linux-related problems

# Common issues
## Themes don't look right

Switch a wallpaper by pressing `Super+Ctrl+T` and choosing a picture in prompted window. If it doesn't work, run `~/.config/quickshell/scripts/switchwall.sh` in a terminal, follow the same procedure, see the logs and figure out the problem yourself or send it in an issue/discussion 

## Icon of some application missing in dock/overview

It's technically not possible to have perfect icons. The icons are guessed from each app's class, which is not necessarily the name of its icon.

Possible solutions:
### GTK apps: Use `gsettings` to set icon theme

Maybe your app's icon isn't available in the default icon pack. In that case you can change it to another.

For example you can use [Papirus](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme). 
It is not used by default because of @end-4's preference, but it has very good coverage of apps.

```sh
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface icon-theme Papirus
```

Of course you must install it first, for Arch Linux use `sudo pacman -S papirus-icon-theme`.

### Qt apps: Edit kde-material-you-colors config

Open `~/.config/kde-material-you-colors/config.conf`
Find these lines and edit to your liking
```ini
# ...
iconslight = breeze-plus
# ...
iconsdark = breeze-plus-dark
```

## Music controls don't show up

> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#168](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/168) (Note: Old issue for AGS version)

- Make sure your player has Mpris support (here's a list: [MPRIS - Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/MPRIS))
- If it's a browser, install the Plasma Integration extension: 
  - [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/plasma-integration/)
  - [Chromium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/plasma-integration/cimiefiiaegbelhefglklhhakcgmhkai)

Make sure `plasma-browser-integration` package (for Arch, figure out the corresponding package yourself if not on Arch) is installed

Then, when firefox is playing media, the following command
```bash
dbus-send --print-reply --dest=org.freedesktop.DBus /org/freedesktop/DBus org.freedesktop.DBus.ListNames|grep mpris
```
the output should include
```plain
string "org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration"
```
Only "plasma-browser-integration" names will work. others won't.

If for some reason, firefox still does not have dbus `org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.plasma-browser-integration` showing up,
consider the following steps:
1. Create a new profile using `firefox --ProfileManager`.
2. Launch firefox with the newprofile and install the Plasma Integration extension again.
3. Restart firefox with the new profile and try again.
- _Note: `playerctl -F metadata` may also be helpful for debugging._

## Weird icon names instead of icons show up
- Make sure the Material Symbols font (not Material Icons) is installed. 
  - On Arch, use the `ttf-material-symbols-variable-git` package
  - If your distro does not have a package for it, install manually:
    - Download the .ttf files from [Material Symbols' repo](https://github.com/google/material-design-icons/tree/master/variablefont)
    - Put them in `~/.local/share/fonts`
    - Refresh font cache with `fc-cache -fv`
    - Restart the shell with `Ctrl`+`Super`+`R`

## `loginctl lock-session` does nothing
> Reference: [end-4/dots-hyprland#278](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/issues/278)

According to [this post on Arch Linux Forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1311990#p1311990):
> Something needs to listen to systemd-logind's dbus signals for this to work.

Hypridle is capable to be this "thing", which means you should ensure that it is running,
and then `loginctl lock-session` will send signal to hypridle,
as a result hypridle will lock the screen by executing the `$lock_cmd` defined in its config `~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf`.

See [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/#configuration) for more.

## Screen brightness flickers

See [This Hyprland Wiki FAQ entry](https://wiki.hypr.land/FAQ/#my-monitor-has-flickering-brightness-when-i-turn-on-vrr)

# Configuration-related questions

## How do I prevent Telegram or other messaging apps from stealing focus on new message?
- Set Hyprland's `misc:focus_on_activate` variable to `false`

## How to disable anime shit?
- Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, select "No" for "Weeb" policy

## How to disable AI or restrict it to local models?

Open settings app (`Super`+`I`), go to General, and change the "AI" policy in the "General" section of the settings app

## How to remove the fake rounding of the screen?

There's an option in the settings app, explore it

## Terminal colors aren't very readable

In the settings app go to "Advanced" section. Decrease Terminal Harmony value

## Is there a quick Proxy/VPN setting? I'm in Russia and my ISP doesn't want me to watch hentai

For content restriction bypassing, the shell offers a quick toggle for Cloudflare Warp if you have it installed. You can see the relevant section on the Configuration page.

## How to enable transparency?

See [#1991](https://github.com/end-4/dots-hyprland/discussions/1991)

# Hacking

## I want to [do this very specific thing]

Try https://deepwiki.com/end-4/dots-hyprland
